IN WHAT was supposed to be the year honouring Oliver Reginald Tambo and the year of unity, the ANC has been caught up in court actions in three different provinces that are casting a shadow over this month’s leadership elective conference. Some of the nation’s top legal eagles have been roped in to advance or disprove arguments in courtrooms where comrade has taken on comrade. Putting the ANC’s elective conference on tenterhooks is that the provinces have not found amicable solutions, even a few weeks before the ANC’s highly contested election. In the North West, a challenge by a disgruntled group will not affect the province’s resolve today to hold its provincial general council in preparation for the December conference. The General Council will pass the final approval over the men and women who will make up the choice of branches for leadership. Premier Supra Mahumapelo is believed to still hold the power in the province though the leader of the “rebel” group, Tokyo Mataboge, also commands a strong following. In what was once the ANC’s power base, KwaZulu-Natal will rely on the Pietermaritzburg High Court to put the brakes on the internecine warfare by withholding two judgments. The court is faced with deciding on whether it should allow the provincial executive committee, with Sihle Zikalala at the helm, permission to appeal a September 12 ruling that the conference that elected it in November 2015 was illegal. The second argument was whether to grant the Lawrence Dube-led rebels an execution order to have the ruling take effect immediately. Arguing for an appeal to be sanctioned, Greg Harpur SC said the constitution of the ANC regarding holding early conferences was being misinterpreted by the court. He argued that even the court in its own ruling admitted that it was not easy to reach a ruling and felt another court may reach  another conclusion and argued they should be allowed to appeal. Appearing for the dissidents, Wim Trengove SC and Tembeka Ngcukaitobi argued that the matter has no prospect of being won in the Supreme Court of Appeals. “A full bench is equivalent to a bench of the appeals court,” Trengrove argued, adding the matter should be concluded swiftly as it was of public interest. On the execution order, Trengove and Ngcukaitobi argued that the PEC had time to call for a fresh conference and regularise their stay but had not. To him, he said, the fact that the PEC wanted to go to the Constitutional Court meant that they were delaying it as the matter may only be heard in 2019. “The applicants (the rebels) will suffer harm as ANC members, they are entitled to legal leadership. “There are also two elections of  national importance they would like to approach with a legitimate leadership,” he said. Meanwhile in the North West, the high court on Wednesday heard an application by party members from Bojanala challenging the outcomes of the branch general meetings. However, PEC spokesperson Gerald Modise told The New Age the ANC was confident of winning the case. The challenge for the ANC in the Free State will be to convene 29 branch general meetings in the coming week before its elective conference. The party was ordered by the Free State High Court this week to re-run 29 branch general meetings before going to the provincial elective conference, which was set to take place from today. The party has moved the conference to next weekend, just a week before the national elective conference takes place. sifisom@thenewage.co.za -Sihle Mavuso, Michael Tlhakudi and Elfas Torerai