WHEN Teko Modise sat with Jazzman Mahlakgane and writer Nikolas Kirkinis to finalise his book, The Curse of Teko Modise, they must have known that it would make lots of people uneasy. Modise’s former club Orlando Pirates would not want the nation knowing of their use of muti, and some of Modise’s “friends” would not be pleased to know that he felt they were with him only because of the free drinks and food. Another person mentioned in the book who found it disturbing is former Pirates captain Benedict Tso Vilakazi. Vilakazi has refused to comment on the age-cheating allegations in the book. “I have not read the book. I just saw the newspapers talking about it. Yes, you can tell me what he is saying about me,” Vilakazi said. After being told that Modise accuses him of faking his age, Vilakazi paused for a moment before responding. “Is it? He says that? Well, if that is what he is saying then there is nothing I have to say. No comment. In the book, Modise mentions how age cheating is rife in South African football, especially in the townships, that a man would help youngsters with new IDs that displayed false ages. “Your new ID had your photo, name and birthplace. Everything was accurate except for your birth date,” reads page 14 of the book. Modise goes on to write that “accusations about age faking followed him around for his entire career and continue to haunt him even today”, in reference to Vilakazi. The former Pirates, Sundowns and current Cape Town City player said he refused to play against a team that would have been captained by Vilakazi in their juniors. Modise said in that match, he went to Vilakazi and told him straight to his face: “Chief, I was there the other day. I know what happened. We not gonna play you guys. You guys are overage. Most of you have fake IDs,” Modise says in his book. After the launch, Modise said he was not fazed by what people may think of his book, saying everything he said is the truth. “Of course I knew that people will not be happy. But it is the truth. I am just retelling what happened. I did not lie,” Modise said after the book launch in Rosebank on Tuesday night. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za -Mmasekepe Matsebane