Dramatic evidence from the investigating officer emerged in the murder case of Karabo Mokoena in court today.A deal was struck which allowed the reporting of the bail application of her boyfriend Sandile Mantsoe in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court. But the media were not allowed to name witnesses.The investigating officer, with 31 years of investigating cases of abuse and violence against women and children, gave his testimony, explaining that Mantsoe needed to kill Mokoena because he wanted to destroy &#8220;a jinx&#8221; which had followed him after the couple broke up.The officer said there was no evidence that she was suicidal, but there was evidence he had abused her prior to her murder.Mantsoe had made an admission when he was arrested for her kidnapping that. he said he burnt her so that police would not link him to the death of the girl.He had told the police he had to kill Mokoena because when he met her, and they fell in love, she introduced him to some traditional rituals.Both incised their bodies and marked their bodies with a tattoo in shape of a cross to ensure there&#8217;s a lasting bond between them.This would also enable his business to thrive.The reason for his business not doing well was because of a jinx after he broke up with her. He could only break the jinx by killing her.He believed that since both their blood were mixed and still had a bond, he had to cut the bond and kill her for the success of his business, the officer told the court. Clear that he would have to kill her in order to stop the spiritual bond, he said in his affidavit.Mantsoe was aware of the security cameras. He used a trolley bin to move her body out of the apartment on the fourth floor. He bought petrol and tyre with pool acid too.The officer believed there was a strong probability that Mantsoe would interfere with the investigation.He had burnt the body beyond recognition so that there was no trace of evidence. The accused has removed deceased clothes from the apartment and he gave the clothes to his family.The couple were in a relationship from October last year, broke up in April. She was admitted to hospital after he beat up.On April 27 before midnight, he picked her up her from Diepkloof. She was seen entering the apartment, and that was the last time that decreased was seen alive.He came out alone and went to a meeting with a client. Video footage has him alone, emerging from their Sandton Skye flat in Sandton.A body of an unknown female was discovered, burnt beyond recognition and was identified through DNA procedures as Mokoena.Family and friends had been worried about her disappearance. They tried to call her, but there had been no answer. They asked the accused of her whereabouts. She denied any knowledge of her whereabouts, claiming he had last seen her at the beginning of April.According to information, the deceased was last seen at the Sandton&#8217;s Skye. On May 10, 2017, she was reported missing. Family members accompanied by police approached him, but he continued to plead ignorance, saying he did not know her whereabouts even after they had watched a security footage showing both of them together in April.He was arrested for kidnapping because they could not determine if she was still alive. According to the police, he made an admission before a commissioner of oaths that he had taken her to an open veld in Bramley, poured swimming pool acid over her and burnt her body, a confession he has denied.The post-mortem report is still pending. The officer said the accused should not be granted bail as it had come to his attention that he had blamed one of the witnesses, claiming that the only reason he had been arrested was because the witness had told the police about the burnt body.&#8211; Canny Maphanga