White sovereignty remains king in a post-democratic South Africa, where the absence of social cohesion foils the attainment of social and economic justice.The masterful majesty alluded to by the notion of the rainbow nation reconciliation that was predicated on an assumed social cohesion that was born out of a successful negotiated settlement was actually a false dawn of wishful thinking. There was no social cohesion, just a form of negotiated sunset clause state capture.The very idea of social cohesion, in a society torn apart by the hand of apartheid and colonialism and light years away from social and economic justice is illicit in my view. Reconciliation and social cohesion cannot take root in a nation where the majority remain landless, despite being the rightful owners of land.I was invited to speak at the city of eThekweni s social cohesion conference earlier this week. At the very last minute, the conference was cancelled, which was unfortunate as the state of social cohesion in South Africa warrants forthright discourse.As a writer and political commentator, I have penned much about social cohesion and reconciliation in South Africa. My view has been clear and uncompromising. I don t believe social cohesion exists in South Africa. Not in any meaningful way. I have written that reconciliation is a white man s medicine that has hurt rather than healed this nation, even if that was not the original intent.I don t believe that our pledge as South Africans should be first and foremost be to social cohesion. Rather, our pledge should be to social and economic justice, as far as that is ever possible in a country so tragically devastated by apartheid and colonial atrocities.A pledge to reconciliation and social cohesion without social and economic justice is a hypocritical oath in our deeply wounded society, where there have been no reparations for apartheid and colonial plunder.In this rainbow nation of ours, we sugarcoat the trauma of contemporary South Africa. Our collective consciousness as a nation is captured by a superficially fashioned fervour for social cohesion and reconciliation. We have not sought or fought, with any potency, for social and economic justice.We speak joyfully of South Africa as a thriving democracy, on the crown of a Constitution, which is renowned worldwide as a masterpiece of human rights. Yet, we have not shaken the white dominance and structural inequality which patterned the underbelly of the oppressive colonial and apartheid regimes.Today, black South Africans are squatters on their own land. The truth is that social cohesion does not exist in our country. Unless of course you are moved by the affectation of social cohesion extravaganzas one sees at the Save South Africa marches.While the voice of civil society must be heard in the compose of social cohesion, it must be authenticated, rather than the jaundice of an anti-transformation hybrid of displaced, disgruntled activists and their legion of reactionary liberals.On the issue of white South Africans, I often despair that we suffer from a serious ethical deficiency. I have said it many times before and I will say it many times again if whites had a moral compass, we would have returned stolen land by now. Until land is returned, social cohesion will be a parable.It is time for whites to admit culpability for atrocities committed by their forefathers, reparations must begin in full force and land must be returned. It is not only a transformation imperative. It is a moral obligation. Land return and economic transformation is a prerequisite for social cohesion and reconciliation.Sometimes I wonder if we are spending far too much time speaking about social cohesion with those who are more interested in safeguarding their privilege than in investing in a truly liberated nation. If whites fail to commit to land return and radical economic transformation, perhaps this voice does not deserve to be heard.On the question of social cohesion, media play a critical role. Presently the level of bias, trickery and lack of transformation in the media is severing not servicing society.In an article I published in May, I spoke of how even if President Zuma rescued an infant from drowning in a rapid, he would nonetheless be portrayed as ruthless. Such is the lack of impartiality and the strict application of media bias that contaminates today s pens of journalism, and fractures social cohesion.The media s complicity in engorging white interests and privilege, is also in defiance of reconciliation, and editorial practices which ensure that whiteness defines our every day, effectively bonsai social cohesion, and downgraded black interests, dignity and lives.Any true pledge to social cohesion will require a shutdown of the rainbow nation and the steering in of a free Azania, where white supremacy and privilege is decisively unseated and where the interests and dignity of the black child comes first. Unless we collectively pledge our commitment to this, true liberation in South Africa will remain eternally deferred.It is only in a free Azania, where land has been returned and where economic transformation is a daily bread enjoyed by all, that we can start talking about social cohesion. To speak of reconciliation and social cohesion in an unfree South Africa is a dishonour not only of our past, but of our present and our future.Kim Heller is a writer and commentator