PARLIAMENT S biggest trade union, the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union, has called on the ANC leadership deployed to the institution to do what is correct and immediately suspend secretary Gengezi Mgidlana.Nehawu said at a media briefing, held in Parliament s Old Assembly Chamber, it was not withdrawing from its battle against Mgidlana. We have a multi-pronged strategy. Should everything fail we will approach the High Court to declare him unfit to hold any public office. Because the evidence we have is very crucial.If he knows what is good for him he should resign, branch chairperson Sthembiso Tembe said. They would reconvene next week to discuss what should be done if Mgidlana was not suspended as demanded.Whatever they decided upon it would not be nice, Nehawu warned yesterday. While making this call yesterday, Nehawu said it had no confidence in the investigation being conducted into Mgidlana by Parliament s Internal Audit Committee.Regional secretary Baxolise Mali said: We believe that Mgidlana has been treated like a golden boy. Nehawu, he said, preferred going to the public protector with its allegations of corruption against Mgidlana because it wanted to give her an opportunity to prove herself. We do not have a trust in Internal Audit Committee.We think the public protector must do what is right. We are saying Mgidlana must be suspended. This demand, he said, did not only come from Parliament s Nehawu branch but from the region as well. We have hope and trust in leadership of the ANC.We have hope that leadership of the ANC deployed to Parliament will do what is correct. We trust that leadership. Nehawu, which called the press conference yesterday to publicly call for Mgidlana s suspension, said it had written to Parliament s presiding officers to ask them for the suspension. He continues to damage the image of Parliament. He continues to provoke workers and mislead public. The suspension should happen today or by end of this week, Tembe said. If this was not done, he said, workers would reconvene next week to discuss their next move and it won t be nice .On allegations that workers might not get an annual increase this year, Tembe said Nehawu was happy with the pronouncement from both houses of Parliament that this would be unacceptable. The message was clear that workers of Parliament cannot go without increases.Importantly the Speaker said Mgidlana would be subjected to an investigation. Migidlana should be put on suspension immediately. He continues to behave as if he is a law unto himself, Tembe said.DENNIS CRUYWAGEN