HE IS cunningly sweet, intelligent, and a cold-blooded killer. At only 22 years old, Percy Khoza stabbed his girlfriend 38 times in the neck.When he was caught, he claimed it was his child s mother who brutally murdered political science student Mary-Lee Macumbe when she found her at his home in Troyeville in 2014.Already convicted of murder and with a strong possibility of being sentenced to life in prison, he is unremorseful and insists he is innocent.He seemed unconcerned, not even by his victim s family sitting behind him in the gallery as his counsel, advocate Stephen van Rensburg, pleaded with the judge to give him a lesser sentence. He was in his youthful days and is a first time offender, he looked after his mother and was working before he was arrested.He does not have any life experiences like a 40 year old who would have known better. He has been punished already. He s been in jail for the past three years while awaiting trial, Van Rensburg said.Khoza painted the mother of his child, Kgomotso, as a jealous and abusive lover who had threatened some of his female friends and colleagues.He claimed Masemola went into a fit of rage when she found Macumbe at his home in Troyeville. She stabbed Macumbe and threatened to kill his daughter and mother if he didn t help her cover up the crime he claimed. Khoza said the two of them wrapped her body in a carpet cleaned the floor and walls and burnt their bloodied clothes.He further claimed that the next day a friend helped him load the body into the boot of her vehicle. They drove around until the car ran out of fuel and they dumped it. Although she has seemingly accepted that her son is going to jail for a long time, Khoza s mother is hopeful that he will come home one day.Speaking to him before he went back to the holding cells, his mother advised him to not join gangs and be involved in prison brawls so that he could be released early on good behaviour. She had brought him food, clothes, blankets and shoes while he was in custody. Khoza, although in chains, seemed confident and showed no emotion.The state prosecutor, however, described Khoza as someone who knew exactly what he was doing. He is cunningly sweet and intelligent. Him being 22 does not mean he did not know what he was doing. If you were youthful you would have dropped everything but he cleaned the crime scene, advocate Leisha Surenda said.NONDUMISO ZWANE