KEITUMETSE Phirisi, 28, has been living with a dead foetus in her stomach for six days. Last Friday, five-month pregnant Phirisi went to a local clinic in Soshanguve, Tshwane, when she noticed she hadn t felt the baby move all day.The clinic transferred her to George Mukhari Academic Hospital. When I got there I was checked by a gynaecologist and I was told that my baby s heartbeat had stopped and the skull and spinal cord had collapsed. They told me to go home and come back on Tuesday because in most cases people blame the hospital machine for saying that the heartbeat had stopped and at a later stage they get a second opinion and find that the baby is still alive, Phirisi said.But when she arrived at the hospital on Tuesday, she was told that she had been given a wrong date because doctors would only be available the next day. Due to my fears I asked if they could admit me, but they told me that the beds were full so they had no space for me. I was scared because on Friday my blood pressure was 145 and by Tuesday) it was 154.This has affected me really badly, especially on the weekend. I could not cope knowing that I am living with a dead baby inside me. I did not know what dangers I am facing while carrying the baby around. I don t know what s happening inside, she said. Yesterday, The New Age accompanied Phirisi to the hospital early in the morning.Reporters approached the hospital to speak about Phirisi s case and the procedure it uses when one has lost a baby. A sister in charge said that they had only one labour ward and only three delivery cubicles, so they wait for those in cubicles to deliver and then attend to other patients.However, a doctor at the hospital said that according to him and his medical experience, Phirisi s situation was not an emergency. He said that he saw the patient on Tuesday and told her to come back on Wednesday. He said he knew that she was pregnant and the baby had died but he did not know the cause.He said what they wanted to do is prevent complications hence they wanted to let the baby come out on its own. We do not remove the baby immediately and the most important thing is counselling. Patients are allowed to go home with babies that are incompatible with life.We give options on whether one wants to wait for spontaneous labour or give the patient induction, he said. He added that even if the patient wanted it to be terminated immediately he was not going to do it as it was not an emergency. Also, she wouldn t suffer any negative medical effects.Told about Phirisi s ordeal, clinical psychologist Khosi Jiyane said it was shocking to hear that someone had been living with a dead baby inside their stomach for six days. She said that this was not a normal situation because they cannot walk around comfortably knowing they have lost their baby inside. I would have expected that they should have done the evacuation already and not wait for the baby to deliver itself, but doctors know what they are doing. Psychologically they can t take this for granted. But I would expect that they should have referred her to someone who will help her cope with the situation. She must get psychological counselling, Jiyane said. Provincial department of health spokesperson Prince Hamnca said they would have to communicate with the hospital and investigate the matter before commenting further. DIKELEDI RAMABOPA dikeledir@thenewage.co.za