Although she is following ANC policy by holding back on stating if she is in the race for the ruling party s presidency, Baleka Mbete is clear on the challenges awaiting the new leadership.Interviewed in her office in Parliament, where she is the Speaker, the ANC national chairperson and former deputy president of South Africa spoke about unity, life in exile, Parliament and the future.Unity, Mbete said, is the cornerstone of the ANC s value system. Unity is something you breathe. You know it is what in fact we are about. Now whether we are all consciously practising it is a different matter .Given that the ANC will hold a policy conference later this month and its national conference in December unity a lot has been on the party s mind.Mbete said it was difficult for the party to find a mechanism through which it could manage activities that we are involved in as we are getting closer for instance to the policy conference and later to the national conference .Still unity remained a very important core value. So what I m saying is that it s the home food that we are brought up on. It s what is part of our DNA but is always very challenging. It s difficult actually living out because as human beings we will have different preferences and therefore we will seem to be fighting .Was it easier to maintain unity in exile? Exile was an interesting place. I prefer to call it a place because psychologically, maybe poetically, what comes to your mind is this vast existence and expanse none of which belong to us. Psychologically ANC members were bound together then. Belonging was very much a mechanism that kept us together. This psychological bond disappeared after the ANC was unbanned in 1990 and they returned home. Back home you started actually experiencing it because if one of us died you did not get to know for a long time. You only heard of it when the funeral has happened. So exile was different. It had things about which one continues to be nostalgic but of course there s no place like home. So we always knew as we were there in exile there was a home. The word home assumes such a special place in your psyche. You had been self-protective because you were not sure you would ever come home. So it was like in a particular way a no go zone because it was too painful just in case you never came back home. As speaker and also the national chairperson of the ANC Mbete has become the focus of many a barrage of opposition criticism over her alleged bias. I think the fifth Parliament has come with its own idiosyncrasies. They manifest themselves I would say mainly in the stance of the EFF but also in how the opposition has ended up coming together with a particular strategy. This would also be manifested by the EFF with its extreme language and conduct. Other times it would be the EFF and the DA. I think what has happened in this fifth term is very unfortunate because it has taken away our innocence politically after having had what I think was quite a beautiful transition. Having served South Africa as deputy president, speaker and deputy speaker are there any mountains left to climb? Perhaps as ANC president? To get there she would have to beat the ANC Women s League s preferred candidate Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and the party s deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa. It s is true I have been approached. I have since even confided in my leader about that. The ANC has declared that only after the policy conference will it be the time when branches may openly talk about names and also interact with individuals that are their prospective candidates, she said. Really I chair meetings that take these decisions. Now can you imagine me being the very person that would go outside of that? I can t do that, Mbete said.Being approached to be a candidate as a possible ANC president was an honour. One must have the humility to always see it as that. There s no ready-made product that is perfect for leadership. There are so many great ANC cadres of leadership quality but when people come to you you ve got to ask yourself me? Are you sure? You know. So it is an honour. Mbete has a clear vision of where South Africa should be headed. When we went to the 53 conference we asserted the resolution that we are now in an era when our focus must be radical social economic transformation. Which in fact is what we must implement. We must break it down and we must say how best do we get there. In her view, Mbete said, the next leadership, apart from the fact that it will be a transition, must also bring in more young people. I m saying I m worried about the land reform issue. I m also concerned that we are not doing enough to focus on the reality of rural communities. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za