Public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane s report on the R1.125bn apartheid era bailout of Absa yesterday shone the spotlight on the uncomfortable truths about state capture that the South African public needed to hear.This is according to Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini, who said Mkhwebane s report highlighted the need for a thorough and honest discussion of how state capture penetrated ever deeper in both the state and private sector financial institutions.He said allegations of state capture that were limited to role players within the government alone were inadequate in getting to the nub of the matter. That s the point. Cosatu supports the ANC s expansion of its investigation into state capture.It should also extend to the financial sector. There are no holy cows, Absa is guilty of a crime and it has all along been pretending to be holier than thou, Dlamini said. He also said it was disconcerting that the ears of the Financial Intelligence Centre (FIC) have been deaf on crimes in the financial sector. Fica should tell us if Absa is also a risk. Does a bank become a risk if it takes money from the government and does not pay it back? Fica must answer now and tell us how are they going to deal with this matter. Mkhwebane s report comes as an ANC national executive committee (NEC) last month called for a comprehensive judicial commission of inquiry into state capture dating back to the dawn of democracy in 1994. SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said the communists were of the view that Absa s alleged improprieties were worthy of further investigation. There can be no doubt that all the funds that were misappropriated from the state must be restored back to the state to facilitate transformation and development to the benefit of the people as a whole, he said.The ANC s leagues also wasted no time in condemning Absa on its Lifeboat Scandal. ANC Youth League secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza was adamant that Absa should repay all the monies it unduly benefited from. We are adamant that Absa must pay back the money, he said. MK Veterans Association (MKMVA) chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe echoed Nzuza s sentiment. Absa must pay back the money. It benefited unduly and the public protector s recommendations are binding. Absa must comply, he said.However, Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota said the government s laxity in failing to act on Bankorp s alleged misappropriation of funds awarded to Absa, indicated that the government itself was not only a willing participant but also government officials may have had their snouts in the trough over the deal. The entire administration must be held accountable for public funds that have been lost in this way, he said. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said although the allegations levelled against Absa should be regarded in a serious light and no one, including the Gupta family, should be exonerated from allegations of corruption. State capture is different. The CIEX report talks about financial institutions that have been colluding. Perhaps the public protector should have referred the report to the Competition Commission, he said.Black First Land First s Andile Mngxitama feared the worst for Mkhwebane, seeing now that she had exposed the often overlooked misdeeds of crimes in the financial sector institutions. The public protector is going to come under massive attack from the DA and EFF.They don t want people to know that corruption in South Africa is a white affair, he said.BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za