WITH three races to go before the conclusion of the Spar Women s 10km Challenge, the Grand Prix is still up for grabs This year has seen different winners in each leg, with Louisa Leballo winning in Cape Town, Kesa Molotsane in Port Elizabeth and Tish Jones in Durban.Unlike last year where Irvette van Zyl dominated, yesterday in Durban, unknown Jones surprised many when she sprinted to victory ahead of Molotsane, who finished second and Lebo Phalula third. Jones took the lead after 1km and she never looked back as she powered her way to victory.Molotsane still leads the Grand Prix despite finishing second yesterday. She has now finished second twice, in Cape Town and Durban. Molotsane admitted that anyone can still win the championship and that she will need to do well in the last three races if she is to walk away with the Grand Prix this year. My run was a bit different yesterday because I didn t know what to expect because of the weather, Molotsane said. The weather in Free State is a bit different from Durban. It was -3 C in Free State and here it s hot, so it was a drastic change for my system. The Grand Prix is still unsettled at this stage for me because anything can still happen. I will try my best to stay up there and in the remaining three races I need to be up there. Jones was pleased with her victory and said it was a result of the hard work she had been putting in at training. At start I found myself in the lead and I wasn t sure how I managed to get it, Jones said. But I know I am comfortable going out with that pace now although I dropped off in the last 2km, slower than when I started, but I managed to finish and I m very happy. Lebogang Phalula, who finished third yesterday, said she was working on bouncing back and was pleased with her performance. The past few months I have been stressed because my sister Diana was pregnant. You know when your twin is sick you are also sick, now she has a baby and everything is fine, Phalula said. Now I m slowing coming back into form and I will start training hard. I m happy to be in the top three as it has been a long time that I am not there. My sister told me that I can still win the Grand Prix if I concentrate and I must not worry about her. The next race is in August in Pretoria before moving to Pietermaritzburg and Johannesburg.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza