From humble beginnings, the Funda Nenja dog training initiative, which started with the aim of providing disadvantaged children with dog training lessons, has grown over the years to provide life skills, educational and psychosocial support to dog-loving children in Mpophomeni township near Howick.Funda Nenja, which translates in Zulu as learning with the dog, was founded in 2009 by Adrienne Olivier after she realised a need to teach children in the townships how to care for and handle their dogs in a humane manner.Starting out with 20 volunteer trainers who visited the township every Friday afternoon to teach 70 children and their dogs structured dog-training exercises. At the time, the training sessions aimed to teach the children respect and compassion for all living things, but as they gained traction, Funda Nenja introduced new services meant to promote their own well-being.Today, about 100 children are benefiting, not only from the practical dog training skills but also from the educational and psychosocial help they receive from an in-house auxiliary social worker and an education officer. Owner Olivier explained the reason for this. As the project grew we became aware that we could not just focus on the animals, but we should focus on the children as well. Although the project started primarily as promoting animal welfare, today we focus equally on both the needs of the children and on the needs of the dogs because we understand they go hand in hand. Neither can really benefit if the other is being neglected. So today we actually have a full-time social worker and an education officer. Olivier said the social workers assist children who are in need of any social, emotional or basic-needs support, while their education officer attends to the children s education needs. The social worker identifies children who are in need of help and offers them support. We also have a full-time education officer who helps struggling children with their school work, she said.She said there were also other volunteers who help do background work. The majority of the volunteers come from the community. We call them community assistants . It s also about the community getting involved in the project and giving back to their broader community. Olivier said the dog handlers were learning self-discipline, commitment and responsibility, which was having a rippling effect on the community. Just the very nature of coming for dog training or working with an animal, requires that you have patience, respect and discipline which are all life skills that benefit us generally. The results have been most gratifying. We even have some people report that their children have as a result of the programme become much more disciplined, respectful, not loitering around the streets and coming back home to do their homework and chores. The Funda Nenja children learn basic dog handling and animal welfare; exercises that make for easier handling such as loose leash walking, sit, down, stay and come, as well as a fun element which includes tricks, retrieving and negotiating agility equipment.LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za