Fusing elements of disco, funk, soul and a bit of other musical influences, new afro soul duo, Soulphiatown are ready to unleash their rich sound to South African music lovers with their self titled debut album. The group is made up of two young gentlemen, Mxolisi Madondo and Siboniso Mbhele both from Kwazulu Natal. The two met at the 2013 auditions of Clash of the Choirs, which were held at Howard College in Durban, where they immediately struck a formidable musical friendship.As fate would have it, they both made the final choir representing KZN, which was led by master producer, Robie Malinga. We are here to make disco accessible to the young people, and our influences come from a diverse range of musical cultures both local and international, says Mbhele to The New Age in a recent interview. Our relationship was always about inspiring one another musically.We always spoke abut our dreams and from then onwards we clicked, says Madondo. The musicians are singed under Nomadic Tribes Entertainment, and independent record label and artist management establishment run by one member of the award-winning a capella outfit, The Soil, owned by Ntsika Ngxanga. Having won the iconic choir singing competition, the two young musicians, say they are grateful for the opporutnities that have come their way since then. Clash of the Choirs played a huge role in our musicianship. It is the soul foundation for what has become, Soulphiatown.We are here and owe being part of the choir to the competition, but as you know with most ensemble groups, it all died down, and luckily for us we had something to fall back on as we already had been friends and been working together since then. All we ever did was talk about music, so it was easy for us to continue working together, Madondo said. Before working on their self titled debut album, which will be launched this Saturday at Winnies Jazz Club, the two musicians have had an opportunity of working with stars such as Rebecca Malope as her backing vocalists as well as Zakes Bantwini and Naima Kay among others. We already have released three singles from the 11 track album, which was released digitally on May 30. Because we love our fans we decided to give them a bonus track, and we have songs that speak to the political situation in the country with Mayibuye, a song that features our label mate, Khonaye. We also have Zakwe on the song Get Down and another single, Pata Pata, Mbhele said.The band s manager Ngxanga said he never planned to have a record label, but when she first heard Khonaye sing he immediately knew she was heaven sent and a gift that he could not just ignore. When I first heard Khonaye, I had vibrations all over my body, and it is same felling I got when I met the tow young brothers that are now known as Soulphiatown. It was God speaking to me to give these young musicians an opportunity to tell their stories, he said.SIYABONGA SITHOLE