The South African government has failed to implement the CIEX report to recover stolen apartheid era funds, public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has found. Releasing the final report in Tshwane today (Monday), Mkhwebane found that the government and the South African Reserve Bank had failed to adhere to section 195 of the Constitution by failing to promote effective and efficient public administration. Mkhwebane said the government had failed to  implement the CIEX report and to recover misappropriated money from Bankorp Limited without providing any reasons. She also charged that the government had failed to implement the CIEX report, and that CIEX had been paid 600 000 British pounds for services that had never been used by the  government. The allegation that the government and the Reserve Bank (SARB) had improperly failed to recover from Bankorp Limited/ABSA an amount of R3.2bn cited in the CIEX report, was also substantiated. Mkhwebane said the amount of the “illegal gift” granted to Bankorp was R1.125bn. “Failure to recover the gift resulted in prejudice to the South African people. The public funds could have benefited the broader society instead of a handful of the South African people,” she said. With her remedial action the public protector referred the matter to the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) for investigation and also directed the amendment of Proclamation 147 of 1988 published in the government gazette dated May 7, 1988, to investigate alleged misappropriated public funds given to various institutions as mentioned in the CIEX report The Reserve Bank must cooperate fully with the SIU to recover misappropriated public funds.
She said the chairperson of the portfolio committee on Justice and Correctional Services must initiate a process to amend section 224 of the Constitution. Mkhwebane said her work regarding the CIEX report was not “politically motivated”.
“We don’t want a situation where SARB is only seen to be benefiting the commercials banks whereas neglecting the needs of common citizens. So this has nothing to do with taking sides or being politically motivated,” she said.