A Johannesburg woman who suffers from chronic cluster headaches, also known as suicide headaches , has been handed a lifeline by the Headache Clinic in Parktown.This comes after the clinic offered to treat Koketso Nzimande, 29, who has been suffering from chronic cluster headaches, after The New Age published an article on her plight.Nzimande on Wednesday underwent surgery to help with the cluster headaches which tormented her for years. I was attending hearings at work because I was always absent. When a cluster headache hit me, it left me totally unable to function, she said.The clinic performed the surgery on Nzimande after hearing about her case. The procedure cost more than R70000.Dr Shivel of the clinic came to Nzimande s rescue after her medical aid, Discovery Health, refused to pay, leaving her with medical bills of more than R150000.Nzimande was told that the scheme could not pay for the surgery as there was no procedure code. Discovery Health received an initial request for specialist authorisation relating to cluster headaches that was immediately approved, deputy CEO of Discovery Health, Dr Ryan Noach, said. However, the second request by the member to be admitted for the same condition was declined as the member had no further benefit available for this treatment, having reached the frequency limit for the condition. He confirmed that they had received a claim for an angiogram prior to the planned surgery on instruction from the Headache Clinic. Discovery Health Medical Scheme does not fund treatment offered by the Headache Clinic including the bite plates routinely prescribed by the Headache Clinic. There is no available evidence based medical literature in humans that describes the efficacy of this treatment technique. Some animal studies are available, Noach said.Noach said the scheme only funded treatment supported by evidence based medicine as per the rules of the scheme unless in exceptional individual circumstances .Dr Shivel confirmed that medical schemes do not pay for the surgery because there was no procedure code for the surgery. They have got a wonderful excuse because I m the only one doing it, there is no code. No code, no treatment and when we try to apply for a code they don t accept the code, Shivel said.Shivel offered Nzimande the procedure pro bono.-LERATO DIALE leratod@thenewage.co.za