The final of the provincial winter games saw a team of female pupils from the in Elukwatini near Carolina being crowned as the female rugby champions in the province.The pupils walked away with the crown after they surpassed their peers from other schools in the province during a tournament at the Kees Taljaard Stadium in Middelburg at the weekend. The games were organised by the provincial culture, sport and recreation department.It is expected that the pupils will represent the province at the national winter games in Durban next month. Apart from rugby, the tournament included activities like football, netball, chess, hockey, tennis, volleyball, khokho and jukskei.Siphesihle Masango, 15, who is the captain of the rugby team, said it had always been their intention to outdo their peers and qualify to unleash their rugby abilities on behalf of the province at the national level. Masango said they were certain that they would return home with a victory as a result of their passion for rugby. We are ready to travel to the national games in Durban. We have no doubt that we will be returning home in possession of an accolade as we did at the provincial tournament. Winning the tournament in the province has indeed instilled a sense of self belief in us, Masango said.She also received support from their coach and Mpumalanga Rugby Union s development officer, Sibongiseni Shongwe. I decided to start a rugby development programme in Elukwatini as a way of spreading the game, Shongwe said. My dream was to introduce a rugby culture in Elukwatini and I am happy about what has happened since I started the development drive. Culture, sport and recreation MEC, Norah Mahlangu s spokesperson, Sibongile Nkosi, congratulated the champions and other schools that participated in the games. The provincial winter games final is the culmination of a rigorous selection process that started at the beginning of the year when schools competed at the circuit and district levels by playing in leagues. The winning schools will be represent the province at the national championships in Durban from July 10 to 14, Nkosi said.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za