THOUSANDS of rands down the drain, alleged sexual harassment, starvation and homelessness is what 300 aspiring soldiers had to endure before realising they were being scammed yesterday.The men and women aged between 18 and 30 left KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo for Pretoria after attending a career expo in their provinces organised by an army general known as Gen Ndaba, who turned out to be a fraud.Ndaba has made hundreds of thousands of rands by promising people jobs in the South African National Defence Force (SANDF). And he not only targeted desperate South Africans his operations stretched as far as Namibia.A man from Limpopo said he had used all his savings to pay for the trip to Pretoria and training. I was called by a friend who was already part of the group. I used to work in retail and saved some money and when the opportunity came, I did not think twice, Solomon Maseogane said.A woman from KwaZulu-Natal said she found about the organisation when it conducted a workshop in the province in December. I first suspected something was wrong when we arrived at the address and it was house and not a college.We spent many days without food and we had to pay rent just to sleep on the floor. The training was also nowhere near professional, she said. Some of the women claimed they were sexually harassed. He lured us at a workshop in Port Shepstone.I paid R2000 for a brigadiergeneral post. We spent some time at the plot during training. He used to hit us and touch us inappropriately. Yesterday, about 300 people were removed from a house in Pretoria where they had been living for a month.Ndaba collected about R3 000 per person as a down payment for a job, which already came with an army rank. On top of that, they had to pay rent and for T-shirts and caps that they wore during daily combat training on a plot in Soshanguve.Ndaba masquerades as the founder and leader of the Amabutho Royal Defence Force, an organisation that the SANDF has denounced and successfully challenged in court.While it was clearly desperation for jobs that led to these people to Pretoria, for a Namibian group last year, it was a promise by Ndaba that they would finally receive their pension pay-outs for their services during Namibia s preindependence war.A Namibian newspaper report revealed the group was brought to South Africa by Amabutho Royal Defence Force, which made them pay for services that included registering for pension and compensation pay-outs from the previous SA regime.The Amabutho Royal Defence Force established branches mainly in the Kavango region where former soldiers had to pay between N$3000 (R3000) and N$3 500 to register for pension pay-outs. Social development spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said the department dispatched a team of social workers to the scene to assist with food and transportation of all victims back to their homes.A local community forum member said the group were brought to Karen Park in Pretoria on Saturday and were sleeping on the street. He said they had first arrived in January but relocated to a plot in Soshanguve. We saw this by accident on Saturday night, as no one had reported it. I was driving down the road and I saw the people sleeping in the car as there were many of them in the house. They were all over the street, he said.It was only when he reported the matter to the police that the provincial government sprang into action yesterday morning after learning about the incident. The SANDF has since distanced itself from the incident, saying it does not utilise individuals, groups or groupings to recruit. The SANDF strongly condemns activities aimed at deliberately misleading members of the public regarding recruitment into the SANDF. Members of the public are encouraged to report such activities or people who solicit money from them with the promise of employment in the force to the nearest police station, Col Ronald Mseko said.KUTULLO MADISHA