THE Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has called for nominations to fill vacancies for judges in a number of courts across the country. There are three vacancies in the Eastern Cape High Court, one in Grahamstown and another in Mthatha. One is a vacancy for judge president.Eastern Cape judge president Themba Sangoni is set to retire this year. The Electoral Court has one vacancy and candidates who want to apply should be South African citizens in the legal field. There are six vacancies in the Gauteng high courts, two in the Free State and one in the North West for a deputy judge president post after the commission did not recommend either of the two candidates interviewed during the last round of the interviews in March.There is also a vacancy for a deputy judge president in the Northern Cape division following the recent appointment of judge Pule Tlaletsi as judge president from September. The Western Cape has four vacancies. Nominations should reach the commission by no later than June 30. Interviews will take place during the first week of October at the offices of the chief justice in Midrand.JSC secretariat Sello Chiloane said interviews with short-listed candidates will be conducted in public for the media and members of the public. He said it was open to persons or bodies nominating candidates to motivate their nomination by referring the JSC to the candidate s qualification and general fitness for appointment. Together with their CVs, candidates are required to complete a questionnaire, Chiloane said.The questionnaire must be accompanied by a standardised clearance certificate, which the candidate is required to obtain from their professional body regarding their professional status in that body.Following the interviews conducted in March, a number of judges were appointed. Justice Mandisa Maya was appointed president of the Supreme Court of Appeal, justice Francis Legodi as judge president of the Mpumalanga high court, effective from August 1 and Tebogo Djaje as a judge in the North West High Court, which took effect last week.Daphney Mahosi was appointed as a judge in the Labour Court effective from July 10, Graham Moshoana was also appointed as a judge in the Labour Court, effective from July 31, alongside Portia Nkutha-Nkontwana.nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za-Nondumiso Zwane