THE ANC national executive commitee (NEC) sub-committee on peace and stability yesterday charged that there were judges in the judicial branch of government who harboured resentment towards the post-apartheid dispensation.Briefing journalists in Johannesburg on the ANC s peace and stability discussion document, committee member Michael Masutha said he was of the view that the raft of cases where the government found itself in the dock were tell-tale signs that the judiciary could be over-stepping its role by directing the work of the government.He said that while he would not be drawn into substantiating his claim, he believed this was the case. There are perceptions that there are judges who just hate the government and who will pass judgement at the slightest provocation against the government, but I do not want to be drawn into postulating the veracity of those perceptions. But I can confirm judgments on appeal where higher court judges have reprimanded their own colleagues for the manner in which they conducted their proceedings, Masutha said. Masutha s comments come against the background of the ANC having opened the floor for debate on its policy discussion documents.Masutha also said the recent resignation of judge Mabel Jansen over a racist Facebook comment indicated that the judiciary itself was not exempt from racism. The most recent publicised case is one of a certain judge who was alleged to have made disparaging racial utterance in the course of delivering judgment and we made an announcement not so long ago of having received a request for her resignation from the judiciary with immediate effect. That also points to the reality that racism in our country is still very much a legacy issue that cuts across society and the judiciary is not necessarily spared as has been demonstrated. Some people have called for the JSC to be more circumspect during interviews and during the screening of potential candidates to make sure that as far as it s humanly possible, we are able to tighten up the screening of candidates, Masutha said.Masutha, referring to various court cases besetting the ANC government, said the government could avoid such matters by tightening the screws on how it governed. The issue of losing cases by the state is a multidimensional issue. As the government we should ourselves pay greater attention to the administrative systems under our control to make sure that everything that is done within our own administration minimises the prospects of exposure to litigation, he said.Committee member David Mahlobo, sharing his reflections on matters concerning the threat to state sovereignty, said economic disparities in South Africa made it susceptible to foreign interference. If you don t discuss it and you don t arrive at a conclusion of the patriarchal nature and racist nature of the economy, it poses a security threat, Mahlobo said.He turned his focus to the recent spate of acts of intimidation aimed at senior leaders within the ANC-led tripartite alliance. We ve always condemned the level of intolerance because people have different views, you can t punish them. In our Constitution we thrive in terms of diversity of opinion, he said.BONOLO SELEBANO