The ruckus over the ANC s December elective conference got louder at the weekend as political heavyweights blitzed ANC regions in preparation for the governing party s national policy conference.ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, while addressing a youth month rally in Mthatha, Eastern Cape, said faction-fighting within the ANC rank and file related to the governing party s elective conference threatened to undermine the integrity of its electoral process.He warned that if the matter was left unattended, factionalism could result in accidental leadership succession . Decline of an organisation is not just numbers. Decline starts with our ethical behaviour. If we are unethical, the organisation will decline. The December elective conference is important for us to save the ANC. We must elect leaders who will give hope to the people, not leaders who will say looting continues. Mantashe said.Mantashe, making reference to the ANC s succession debate said principles and not name-dropping were a better method of handling the discussion. Don t expect me to nominate names of people who will lead the ANC now, I can only do that post September, he said.However, ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma said at the weekend in Limpopo, that she accepted the ANC Youth League s nomination for her to lead the party. This after the ANC Women s League and the MK Veterans Association all gave her a nod of approval. There s no way I can refuse the responsibility given by the ANC. I accept the nomination, she said.Batting for deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the ANC presidency was ANC Gauteng chairperson Paul Mashatile, who addressed an ANC West Rand regional council saying Ramaphosa was fit for leadership.He argued that the precedent for the ANC deputy president to succeed the president once his or her term of office ends should not be broken. I know that it is not policy, but we can say that it s history, he said.ANC national Treasurer Zweli Mkhize touched down at the party s Sekhukhune regional general council in Limpopo, saying factionalism and the manipulation of list processes in the ANC threatened to further divide the party. Factionalism is rife, free speech is suppressed. This will not be allowed. We don t need dictators in branches. Manipulation is killing the ANC. Manipulation in government processes is also a problem. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za