The Free State brewed Sesotho drama, Ke Reke Kereke? (Should I buy a church?) ,will be premiered at the iconic annual National Arts Festival in Grahamstown next month (July 2-4).The extras and cameo crew converged on Bochabela near Bloemfontein at the African Gospel Church on Saturday where they shot the closing scenes of this drama that is likely to spark controversy.The intriguing drama is written and produced by Tseliso Masolane, a Rhodes University MA in creative writing student and author of a ground-breaking Sesotho poetry book, Bo naka di maripa (Life is Rigmarole), who is also the main protagonist in the drama.He said the drama depicts the rise and fall of a pompous pastor of a charismatic church who enriches himself at the expense of the vulnerable and poverty-stricken people who are seeking solace in the word of God and worst of all he lands in a sex scandal. The name of the drama, Ke reke kereke? simply poses the question, Can I buy a church? and it is a thoughtprovoking question. One wonders why a person would want to buy a church. The answer is simple, churches are now seen as lucrative businesses, Masolane said.He said as creative writers they are the mirrors of the societies they live in, hence they are always duty bound to reflect the good and the bad things they see happening in our daily lives. Most people will identify with this drama as they know of pastors who are now mega rich through the running of churches, Masolane said.He was quick to explain that he was not depicting the life of Nigerian pastor Tim Omotoso as the play was written long before he found himself at the centre of a human trafficking and sexual abuse scandal.The drama, that has up and coming actors and actresses, was filmed by seasoned videographer and photographer, legendary Spirit Monyobo who said he was happy to shoot it as he was able to identify talent for his future dramas.The Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, said the festival represents a unique partnership between multiple spheres of government national, provincial and local to deliver a single, powerful platform for the country s artists. The aim of the National Arts Festival should be to achieve precisely that goal, to have all its patrons and arts lovers leave the festival believing that what they have seen on stage, in the streets and in the galleries, should make a difference in their lives.It should have significance and continue to exert influence on our lives. The best art should move us to higher levels of consciousness and committed action. Culture and freedom must go hand in hand, he said in a written message from sponsors. The festival will be held from June 29 to July 9 in Grahamstown, Eastern Cape.BECKER SEMELAbeckers@thenewage.co.za