More than 30 schoolgirls and others from the impoverished community of Lokaleng, near Mahikeng were happy to receive comfort packs donated by the Mahikeng Hope Seventh-day Adventist church.The packs contain three packets of sanitary pads, toothpaste and bath soap.Most of the girls come from poor households and they sometimes miss classes when they are on their monthly periods. In other cases, some resort to using unhygienic items like newspapers, cow dung and others use torn clothes, posing serious health risks to them.The hand over took place at Lokaleng Primary School and the girls could not hide their gratitude.Keotsepile Moilwa, 13, said she was happy to receive the comfort pack that will keep her dignity intact. I want to thank the church for giving me this pleasant surprise. I had not anticipated this and I m grateful that some people could think of me and others in this way, she said.Keotsepile said she stays with her father, mother and three siblings.Another pupil, Lesego Motloung, 15, said she was doing Grade 6 and was equally happy that she was among the beneficiaries. Sometimes it s difficult to have this at home especially in a set up where you are the only girl. I therefore want to thank the church members for this gesture and may they continue to do that for us and many others we are in need of this love, she said.Lesego stays with her step-father and three brothers in Lokaleng village.She said together with other girls, they will be able to attend school on a daily basis without much hindrances.Besides the comfort packs, the church also donated food parcels to about six families in the community.The parcels had items like mealie-meal, samp, dry and baked beans, tinned fish, cooking oil, rice, soup packets, sugar and tea, among others.A community member, Lilian Ditefo, 42, was one of the recipients and she was full of praise for the role the church was playing. I m happy that the Seventh-day Adventist church has taught me how practical God s love is. I have gone through a lot of challenges but I ve come to learn that if you pray and ask God to take over your situation, things will be fine, she said.Ditefo has three children and she said that the food parcel will keep them warm as they try to navigate through life s challenges.Lokaleng Primary School principal Jack Tlhabang together with two school governing body members were present at the hand over of the goods and also thanked the church.In his remarks, Tlhabang said: As a school, we want to appreciate the church s gesture because in giving to the needy, you are making a huge difference to the community. We will continue to pray to God that the church be blessed so that it continues with this good work. Dorcas leader at the church, Poppy Malebo said it took collaboration from different church departments to make the donations possible. This is the little we could do but it is not the end. We want to work hard and make this a regular programme that runs at least once in three months, she said. Malebo thanked those who contributed towards the donations and urged that they continue in the same spirit.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za