THE case of a 38-year-old man, one half of the pair dubbed the Alexandra balaclava serial rapists, will continue today in the South Gauteng High Court when a presiding officer will testify on the report she compiled.The sentencing was meant to have been handed down yesterday but the court learnt presiding officer Phindile Mthunzi is on leave and could not be in court.State prosecutor advocate Michelle Bayat said: She should not have taken leave in the first place because she knew from March that on this day she was supposed to be in court. Her supervisor said she is in KZN and we will try to call her to come back. She said it was not good enough that she complied the report, she must also testify in court just in case the judge has questions or needs clarity. We do not know who gave her leave. It is unprofessional. Her director said she will call her but could not guarantee whether she ll be here or not, Bayat said.Accused Sinja Robin Mabitsela, used a scarf and red towel to hide his face. He also carried a lime green pillow with him. Mabitsela started raping his victims in 2007. He was arrested in 2015. The victims were aged from 13 to 38.The victims were accosted and attacked in cemeteries and at a filling station in Tsutsumani. Acting judge Carla van Veenendaal convicted him on multiple counts of rape, compelled rape, assault, sexual assault and robbery with aggravating circumstances.He has pleaded guilty and admitted that he knew that his actions were against the law. From 2007, Mabitsela operated alone. In 2014, he was joined by an accomplice, Xaniseka Mukansi, who pleaded not guilty.The court heard that the pair used a gunshot signal when they spotted people they could pounce on. The pair, with their faces hidden behind balaclavas, attacked couples at isolated spots and forced them to be intimate while they watched.Afterwards the accused and his accomplice would rape the women. They would also rob their victims of any valuables. The organisation, Women and Men Against Child Abuse, said Mabitsela and his co-accused were arrested after DNA evidence linked them to a series of rapes with the same modus operandi. Bayat gave the judge the nine victim impact statements from those whose identities are known.There are also 14 statements from victims who did not want to be interviewed by social workers. The judge is set to go through those and the pre-sentencing report before handing down the sentence.NONDUMISO ZWANE nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za