While the ANC-led tripartite alliance can play at the politics of denial about the existence of white monopoly capital, it cannot deny the racialised and unequal structure of the economy, Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said yesterday.Addressing delegates attending the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union s (Nehawu) 11th national congress in Boksburg, Dlamini said while ANC leaders could nitpick over the meaning of white monopoly capital, it would be abominable to deny the fact that while predominantly white-owned corporations still had a stranglehold over the economy, blacks were resigned to the bottom rung on the ladder of economic development. Comrades, we can argue and debate whether white monopoly exists but we cannot argue and quibble about the fact that it is black and African people in particular who are the poorest in this country and that they do not own the means of production. We also cannot argue (against) that the majority of companies registered on the JSE are white-owned. No one can dispute the fact that 68% of senior managers who are directly involved in decision making are white, as shown in the recent employment equity report, Dlamini said.His comments come on the back of an ANC Gauteng provincial policy conference that came out to rubbish the phrase, white monopoly capital. While the term has been tossed around in public by alliance leaders from as far back as the 1960s, ANC Gauteng chairman Paul Mashatile said: There is no such thing as white monopoly capital in our vocabulary. Dlamini said that it was long overdue for the ANC-led alliance to confront head on the monopolised structure of the South African economy. The pharmaceuticals sector is controlled by Aspen, Adcock-Ingram, Sanofi, Pfizer, Norvatis and all have significant foreign ownership. These are monopolies and they are not owned by blacks and the question must be asked as to who are their real owners? Dlamini, making reference to the ANC s national policy conference on Friday, lamented over the economic trajectory that the ANC has followed since it took office in 1994. The federation is going to the policy conference to contest a neoliberal policy framework that has left the economy of our country in white hands and that has failed to distribute the wealth and resources to the people as a whole. These policies have left the colonial social relations intact, with racialised unemployment, racialised poverty and racialised inequality. Part of what we want to see is the push for a review of the fiscal and monetary policies that have compromised the fiscal sovereignty of our country, in that, for example, we no longer have a policy on exchange control and that means the inflow and outflow of money in South Africa is not regulated. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za