The Minister of Transport Joe Maswanganyi has condemned the blocking of major roads in and around Johannesburg, Midrand and Pretoria by the members of South African National Taxi Council (SANTACO).Members of SANTACO are marching to the SA Taxi headquarters in Midrand and are expected to deliver a memorandum which highlights the plight of drivers affected by current economic woes. SA Taxi is an organisation that helps with the financing, purchasing and arranging of insurance to prospective owners.Maswanganyi also condemned the violence that has characterised the demonstration.&#8220;While it is everybody&#8217;s constitutional right to demonstrate, this has to be done within the ambits of the law,&#8221; said Maswanganyi.#TaxiStrike Gautrain: no bus service is available &amp; trains operating at 20 minute intervals, as staff are unable to reach stations^NS pic.twitter.com/fBSKEqIjc2 City of Joburg (@CityofJoburgZA) June 15, 2017People forced off a bus on its way to Pretoria CBD. Commuters left stranded on Mabopane Highway #TaxiStrike pic.twitter.com/kbRx3AyHIW Matuba Mahlatjie (@matubapressure) June 15, 2017#AzaniaSpeaks On the #TaxiStrikeHow are we supposed to be Financially free as Blacks? Over R1m for a Taxi Stop Enslaving us Please pic.twitter.com/SYzpC5A3Ew #AzaniaSpeaks (@AzaniaSpeaks) June 15, 2017The Department is also aware of the challenges faced by the taxi industry with regards to the affordability of financing their taxi vehicles.&#8220;We sympathize with the taxi industry in this regard. It must however, be emphasized that it is a matter between the industry and the SA taxi finance,&#8221; said Collen Msibi Head of Communication.He added &#8220;We have also been informed that the parties have since reached an agreement and as such we therefore call upon SANTACO members to clear the roads so that the traffic flow can return to normal&#8221;.&#8220;We also want to apologise to commuters who are affected and encourage them to use other modes of public transport such as busses and trains,&#8221; said Msibi.Meanwhile, The Gauteng MEC for Community Safety, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, condemns violence, intimidation and lawlessness following protest action by SANTACO. I am deeply disappointed in the manner in which SANTACO members conducted themselves during protest action this morning. It is a constitutional right for community members to engage in a peaceful protest but violent action and intimidation of non-striking members of communities cannot be condoned. The strike has a negative impact on our economy since Gauteng is the economic hub of our country. In future, we will reconsider granting them permission to engage in protest action. Our Law Enforcement Agencies are working around the clock to ensure that the hooligans who were involved in illegally confiscating truck drivers keys are brought to book to face the full might of law. Workers have avenues they can explore to raise their concerns instead of resorting to intimidation and violent protests, said MEC Nkosi-Malobane.-TNA Reporter 