THE Matyeni Agricultural Cooperative (MAC) in Mount Frere has entered the commercial farming domain with the help of the Imvaba Cooperative Fund, administered by the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC).The cooperative launched its processing facility to produce livestock feed and maize meal and received R500000 from ECDC s Imvaba Fund. Economic development MEC Sakhumzi Somyo commended Matyeni for its initiative and called for rural people to create small businesses to boost rural economies.The cooperative was established in 2012 and has since planted 300 hectares of maize with an estimated yield of 4.5 tons a hectare after harvesting. We are planning to increase maize production to 700 hectares and we are in negotiations with the local Shoprite and Boxer stores to supply them with our processed maize meal and mealie bags.However, we need to increase supply to meet the demands of retailers. Currently we are shelling the maize and selling it to local shops in bags from 10kg to 50kg, Walaza Mazule, MAC chairperson, said. The processing machine will allow us to process the rest of maize for livestock feed. The cooperative has also planted cabbages, carrots, beans, pumpkins and spinach on a further eight hectares.It has 180 sheep, 53 cattle and 223 chickens. Mazule said their plans would gain traction when the planned Mount Frere Fresh Produce Market gets off the ground as operational costs will be reduced. We intend to supply the fresh produce market when it becomes operational.The existing Kei Fresh Produce Market in Mthatha is far which incurs transport costs, Mazule said. Somyo said the Eastern Cape government would fund communities which show initiative and drive. Matyeni Agricultural Cooperative is a good example of taking the initiative.This is an exciting and exemplary organic production by our own communities, something which we must encourage for communities to drive their own development, Somyo said. ECDC Imvaba Fund manager Simphiwe Ntshweni said their investment was in line with the financier s strategy of supporting primary production activities with beneficiation and value addition resources to improve rural incomes in the informal economy.He said to improve the quality of their livestock to compete with commercial farmers, the cooperative decided to process a portion of its locally produced maize into animal feed, resulting in greatly improved livestock.It uses a processing plant in Mbizana, which is 140km away Mount Frere. With the assistance of the Umzimvubu local economic development unit, they approached ECDC for assistance to establish their own mini-processing plant. The Imvaba funding committee assessed the business and approved R500000 to purchase a hammer mill, a sheller and a three-phase generator in the absence of electricity in the area, Ntshweni said. He said ECDC viewed value addition to agricultural produce as a key element to improving rural economies.Ntshweni said the R500000 was a fraction of the R80.7m disbursed to 153 cooperatives since the Imvaba Coperative Fund was established. ECDC has also provided funding to seven potato producing cooperatives in the OR Tambo district municipality to the value of R3.35m in the last year.The funds were used to buy agricultural inputs such as fertilisers, seeds and pesticides. The seven cooperatives have planted 26 hectares of potatoes in this their first.SIYA MITI