With the country s youth unemployment rate sitting at a staggering 38.6%, the province s youth have been encouraged to make use of available programmes and opportunities within the government to develop their lives.This message was delivered by tourism MEC Desbo Mohono and Tourism Deputy Minister Elizabeth Thabethe when they addressed more than 1000 young people at the Youth in Tourism imbizo in Potchefstroom recently.The aim of the imbizo was provide information and tell the youth about the opportunities and funding mechanisms available to them in the tourism sector and other related industries.Mohono said the tourism industry offered great opportunities and were determined to make sure that young people around the country took the lead in this industry. I will make sure that every opportunity available within the tourism industry and especially in the province, will be explored and directed to every youth development programme, Mohono said. We had several young people knocking on our doors, requesting either funding or bursaries. Of the few we assisted, we have obtained good results and that makes me proud that our efforts in ensuring youth development in the tourism sector are coming to fruition. I will soldier on until we win this battle. We are encouraging young people to study with the aim of starting their own businesses instead of being job seekers post graduation. She said the department had many young people who have made inroads and would continue to assist them, growing the economy of the country through tourism programmes.Thabethe said she was optimistic that tourism had the potential to create opportunities that would contribute to alleviating youth unemployment, poverty and inequality. Our government advocates the advancement of youth economic empowerment. As a department, we have prioritised the advancement of youth in our plans for growing tourism. We will ensure that young people are actively participating and benefiting from the initiatives and opportunities provided by the sector, Thabethe said.In the last eight years, youth unemployment in the country has increased dramatically.The 2016 Stats SA quarterly labour force survey revealed that youth unemployment increased by 1.6% to 38.6% with 58% of unemployed people aged between 15 and 34.The survey showed that unemployment was high among people who had less than a matric at 33.1%, while the situation among graduates remained at 7.3%.In an article published on Econ 3&#215;3 s website, researchers Lauren Graham from the Centre for Social Development in Africa and Ariane De Lannoy from the Poverty and Inequality Initiative said the challenge of youth unemployment was a structural issue requiring massive policy investments, political will and time, all long-term solutions. The challenge of youth unemployment is shaped by factors in both the labour market and the education system, alongside intricate community, household and individual-level issues, they wrote. This complex mixture may make it a seemingly intractable problem. While long-term solutions need to be discussed and implemented, certain options warrant attention in the short to medium term. If these were efficiently addressed, we could begin to break down the barriers that prevent entry into the labour market for at least some young people. LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za