The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) is brokering peace between two members listed in their proposed ANC national executive committee (NEC) leadership slate Police Minister Fikile Mbalula and Free State Premier Ace Magashule.ANCYL president Collen Maine said the young lions would work towards smoothing tensions between Mbalula and Magashule ahead of the governing party s December elective conference. I have met with Mbalula and we are dealing with the matter internally, Maine said.He said the young lions still had confidence in Mbalula serving as a leader in the proposed top seven ANC NEC. Yes we still have confidence in him, there are no issues. Maine s comments come against the background of a series of tweets by Mbalula, suggesting that Magashule was unfit to serve as the ANC s next secretary-general. Meanwhile, the MK Veterans Association (MKMVA) yesterday clarified its posture towards Mbalula and his candidacy to serve as ANC second deputy secretary-general.MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe said while the youth league had no qualms about Mbalula, his name was never considered in MKMVA s proposed top six ANC NEC slate. Mbalula was never on the list but we do support the ANCYL in its position on comrade Mbalula, he said.Maphatsoe s comments were a response to media report suggesting that the MKMVA dropped Mbalula from its proposed leadership slate due to a war of words between Mbalula and Magashule.Magashule has also been given the nod of approval from both the ANCYL and MKMVA to succeed ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe at the conference.Maphatsoe, making reference to Mbalula s criticism of Magashule, said the MKMVA did not view Mbalula and Magashule s differences as irreconcilable. I don t think that there is bad blood between Ace and Mbalula. Mbalula was just raising his own views about Ace. There are no tensions. Anyone in the ANC NEC is allowed to have their views about comrades but they will find each other. It s about them, it s about the branches of the ANC. When branches nominate and once comrades are elected, conditions will make them work together. Mbalula does not belong to a group that gossips behind closed doors. Maphatsoe also said while the ANC Women s League, the ANCYL and the MKMVA were all in agreement on the former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma taking over the ANC presidency, the ANC leagues would develop a joint programme of action, centred on Dlamini Zuma s candidacy. Once the ANC opens up its nomination and campaigns process, we will be at the forefront. We will start lobbying ANC branches and structures.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za