The South African Communist Party (SACP), from inception was never known for its large numbers, but it always played a crucial role given its intellectual and ideological input into the ANC and its structures.It was instrumental in the ANC s adoption of the Marxist ideological framework and architecture. The role of the SACP became more and more prominent in the 1960s.At some point almost everyone in the ANC leadership shared dual membership in the SACP. It was in the nature of the Tripartite Alliance to contest for the mind space of others in the act of persuasion. It was the strong presence of SACP leaders from the late 60s that made significant contributions during the Codesa talks and later in the ANC adoption of certain policies.The infamous sunset clause for a negotiated settlement is accredited to Joe Slovo. We will always ask what happened when the Berlin Wall collapsed in 1989. Is it true that communism fell apart and that which kept the ANC together in its architectural ideology gave way too?The SACP and ANC seemed lost from this moment and I am afraid not to have been able to find its compass again. Despite the transition and the agreed settlement the impact of the SACP was waning from the start. Blade Nzimande became general secretary of the SACP in July 1998, making him a long-serving general secretary.We know that at some stage with Thabo Mbeki in leadership, the SACP was told by him to go it alone if they couldn t accept the ANC as leader of the alliance. The SACP therefore never had easy relations with the ANC leadership. Permit me to venture that a part of that tension is perhaps based on the subject of personal interest.The SACP leadership with Nzimande attracted a negative relationship with Mbeki at the helm. The relationship became untenable and hostile. The short stint of a Motlanthe presidency was not spared when Nzimande in January 2009 went on the offensive against Motlanthe as part of the old Mbeki faction. It was therefore easy for Nzimande to lead the SACP to support Zuma, in revenge over Thabo Mbeki s leadership.We cannot argue that as far back as 2007-8 the SACP had confidence that Jacob Zuma would ideologically prove markedly different for we know ANC presidents have to implement ANC policies. The support for Zuma was not ideological, it was personality based. The SACP leadership still has Blade Nzimande and he is at loggerheads with another ANC president whom he, in self-interest, supported until he got a post in a Zuma Cabinet, which he was denied in the Mbeki era.Let us not forget at the time of Zuma ascending to ANC high office, it was in some circles believed Nzimande would be deputy president. Nzimande s woes with the ANC were accentuated in 2015, with the fees-must-fall campaign, when the student masses began to question his leadership of the Higher Education portfolio.The ANCYL openly castigated him for his directionless leadership when he failed to engage with the students or provide constructive and visionary leadership. His apparent love affair with Zuma began to wane and he began to seek reasons to hint at this at every turn. We draw these links to evidence the centrality of individual interest as the cornerstone of Blade Nzimande s politics. It is now irretrievable. We therefore must not find it strange that this individual interest has matured and manifests in every day utterances of SACP leadership.Beyond the oft cited Lenin, Stalin and Marx rhetoric, it is used as a facade which hides a strong capitalist conviction that drives the SACP under Blade Nzimande and Jeremy Cronin. It was only going to be a matter of time before we would see the SACP castigating a Zuma presidency no different to what it did to Mbeki s presidency. The call of the workers vanguard is today a cry for Cabinet posts.The SACP is now an organisation made up of individual leaders that have made individual leadership survival in high state office its sole campaign. Its leader Nzimande is at pains to tell SA of its claimed 280000 membership an issue that was never its core interest.Press statements of the SACP appears hijacked by individuals and group of leaders in the SACP that have made the fight of the party a fight only for the political survival of those in Cabinet. We saw how a second deputy secretary of the SACP, on the morning after the Cabinet reshuffle, found time to convene a press statement in which he took the liberty to divulge what was engaged in the Alliance partnership.For two hours Solly Mapaila was in front of cameras, becoming the crusader for the defence of Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. We know now that this press conference was even a surprise for his seniors. How did this once admirable vanguard become a Cabinet guard?I think this question is best understood in the persona of Nzimande. He has moulded the SACP into an organisation that espouses Marxist doctrine but in every sense in admiration of capitalism at a fundamental and personal level. The commune in communism gave way for to capital and the individualism of leadership.If the SACP leadership is so aggrieved with the Zuma leadership it could have walked out of his Cabinet. If it so shared the conviction of their principles as against alleged corruption and what they have termed crass materialism why are they still sitting in the Cabinet of a man they claim to abhor in violation of the ideals of the national democratic revolution?Every press conference convened by the SACP, by second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila, Nzimande and Jeremy Cronin, is a rebuke of the state and its leadership, yet they never own up to their conjoined role of destroying the alliance. The SACP has lost its authenticity to even red card white monopoly capital its scripted and only song today is state capture in hot pursuit of unseating the ANC president.Zuma s sin is he, like Mbeki, refused to be directed by Nzimande and for that he is now treated as a pariah. I have never been a communist but I can only imagine that true communists long for the day this almost 20-year period of Nzimande, Cronin and the new fox terrier Mapaila comes to an end, for hopefully then true communism will return and individual selfinterest shown the door.For now, these are capitalists no different to any others, who only dress in red for a senseless Red October empty campaign.Clyde NS RamalaineClyde NS Ramalaine: resident analyst for Weekly Xpose