YET another landmark HIV vaccine trial is expected to start in the country later this year as efforts to develop an HIV vaccine that could help halt the global epidemic are gaining momentum. The study comes as an earlier HIV vaccine study (HVTN702) is still under way across the country.The HVTN702 study under way is a preventative vaccine efficacy trial aimed at protecting both women and men against the subtype C HI virus which is prevalent in South Africa. More than 5000 participants are taking part in the study in 15 sites across five provinces.The new HVTN705 is another landmark study aimed at finding a vaccine capable of preventing different subtypes of HIV across different populations. According to the co-chair of the study, Dr Kathy Mngadi, HVTN705 study is aimed at testing an experimental vaccine regimen to see if it can prevent HIV infection in uninfected people. This study differs from the other large vaccine study in SA, HVTN 702, which is aimed at clade C HIV, which is prevalent in South Africa, Dr Mngadi said.HVTN 705 is aimed at preventing different subtypes of HIV, across different populations in different geographical areas. These two studies hope to illicit different responses from the body s defence system and provide us with different options in combating HIV, so that we don t put our hope on a single vaccine to address this problem. A total of 2 600 women will take part in the study across 26 sites in five subSaharan African countries. Areas to be covered include population groups and areas with a high burden of HIV. According to Dr Mngadi, the study is likely to commence in October and will run for about 50 months until 2021. South Africa has a high rate of HIV infections with key affected populations including females between the ages of 15 to 24, sex workers, men who have sex with men and people who inject drugs.It is estimated that 7 million people are living with HIV in the country with over half of that figure on ARV treatment. South Africa has one of the largest ARV treatment roll out programmes in the world. Despite the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy, new cases of HIV still occur, leading to Aids related deaths. We are unable to treat our way out of this epidemic, an effective, safe HIV vaccine is still our best hope to end HIV, Dr Mngadi said.If successful both studies could make history in the fight against HIV andAids. The HVTN702 is the first HIV vaccine efficacy trial in the world in more than seven years since a similar study in Thailand. Former US president Bill Clinton called for the development of an HIV vaccine back in 1997 at the height of Aids related deaths saying only a truly effective, preventive HIV vaccine can limit and eventually eliminate the threat of Aids . Since then the race against time to develop a safe and effective vaccine to end Aids has been on.leratod@thenewage.co.za-Lerato Diale