THE ANC s eleventh hour decision to shelve a crucial alliance political council was met with mixed reaction from alliance partners. Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini yesterday said that while ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe made an about-turn and postponed the meeting that would have brought together all four alliance partners under one roof to tackle challenges besetting them, Cosatu accepted the ANC s move to rather consult first in bilateral meetings. When the SG (Mantashe) informed us that the political council was postponed because of the need to have bilaterals, we accepted that and we are waiting for those bilaterals. We hope that they will lead and guide us in finding solutions ahead of the political council, Dlamini said.Dlamini s comments came on the back of the SACP lamenting Mantashe s move to make last-minute additional changes by opting for bilateral talks first before convening an alliance political council. The party argued that the ANC could not hide behind bilateral talks, considering the crisis engulfing the alliance over the leadership of President Jacob Zuma.Mantashe at the weekend said the ANC decided to postpone the meeting due to a tense political atmosphere within the alliance. Dlamini said while Cosatu would have preferred an ANC-led alliance political council, it had no qualms with speaking to the ANC on challenges confronting both organisations. We have accepted that but it s not us who changed or postponed. We want a meeting that will provide us with solutions to get out of the mess we are in. We expect the ANC to self-correct, we expect everyone to emerge united rather than divided. The unity of the alliance led by the ANC is crucial at this moment. Dlamini said Cosatu s central committee (CC) gathering last week placed the trade union federation in good stead to contribute to its upcoming talks with the ANC. We emerged from the CC united on all issues, declarations and resolutions. It was a good indicator towards the stabilisation of the federation. Sanco president Richard Mdakane said that while the SACP expressed its views on the meeting being postponed, he had no principle objection to the ANC opting for bilateral talks. There are four organisations in the alliance and we have our own issues to discuss with one partner, not all our challenges will be the same. The ANC is the leader of society and a leader of the government so all of us will want to talk to the ANC. As Sanco, we believe that talking will be helpful rather than to shout at one another. Mdakane said he still believed the ANC s chances of retaining power in the 2019 general election could be salvaged. Mistakes can be corrected, the alliance is more important that ever before. The challenges are immense, we need leadership that will talk about the future and not our glorious past, Mdakane said.-Bonolo Selebano&nbsp;