Richards Bay has transformed from a small fishing village to a hub of major industries, drawing in foreign investment and boosting the local economy.And despite the country being downgraded to sub-investment level by two international ratings agencies, the it continues to attract investment.Among these is the a R4.5bn titanium beneficiation project that was recently launched in the Richards Bay Industrial Development Zone (RBIDZ).The RIBDZ signed a contract with local company Nyanza Light Metals, in partnership with New Zealand investor Avertana, to establish a titanium beneficiation plant at Alton, with construction expected to start in 2019.The plant is expected to create about 1200 indirect and 800 direct jobs during construction and about 550 permanent job when its operational.Premier Willies Mchunu said the investment was affirmation of KZN s status as a preferred destination for foreign direct investment. This positive news will boost business confidence and help attract more investment into the province.Critically, such developments are important given the fact that there are fears of a recession resulting from the downgrading of South Africa to a junk status. We acknowledge that we are not the only nation in the world that has had to adjust to the harshness of the impact of recession and other global economic challenges such as downgrading by rating agencies. Over the past years, we have therefore been working hard to help our people to survive through the rough storm that all mankind in different parts of the globe has to navigate. This investment will help create more jobs. Mchunu lauded Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies and provincial economic development, tourism and environmental affairs MEC Sihle Zikalala for securing the titanium project. We thank all partners for working together under challenging circumstances to make this project possible. Zikalala said they were excited that RBIDZ will host this strategic plant which will assist in ensuring that the province remains a national leader in the production of chemicals. To date, we have signed investments of more than R11.9bn representing different key sectors of the economy, Zikalala said. Critically, we have created more than 1 232 permanent jobs and 3 136 jobs during construction. Over the next few months we will be working towards finalising investments of more than R4.1bn emanating from different sectors of our key focus. From these we expect 868 permanent jobs and 1260 jobs during the construction. For much of its history, Richards Bay has been an industrial centre, beginning in 1976 when it was developed into a deep water harbour with rail infrastructure linking it to Johannesburg.Designed for bulk exporting, the port became a catalyst for development that led to the establishment of many industries that are competing globally and contribute to the local economy.Some of the major industries located in the area include Bayside Aluminium, Mondi Kraft (paper mill), Richards Bay Coal Terminal (bulk coal export), Richards Bay Minerals (extraction of and refining heavy minerals from sand deposits) and Indian Ocean Fertiliser (production of chemical fertilisers).LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za