As early learning is the most crucial period of development for any child, educational programmes lay the foundation for future educational gains.An initiative aimed to benefit 7500 pupils across the province this year to bolster literacy among pupils in Grade R to Grade 3 is up an running.According to the Grade R evaluation-policy summary, executive summary and report summary, the first few years of a child s life lay a foundation for cognitive functioning, behavioural, social and self-regulatory capacities and physical health. A South African study found that 65% of Grade R pupils enter Grade 1 without the necessary skills or concepts to master reading, the report said.Coronation Fund Managers are running a reading adventure room drive, an initiative that established two new reading adventure rooms to enhance literacy for the foundation of primary school pupils.This initiative also provides classrooms which have become the dwelling of imagination and escapism for children from unsafe communities.The project involves the training of teachers and implementing a successful language educational programme in the foundational phase.St Augustine s Primary School teacher Moira Morton said: The equipment is a great help. It serves all pupils as it provides for all learning styles, example, visual, auditory and tactile learning. The books are easy to use and text is legible. There is enough resources for all pupils to use. Covers of books are colourful and attractive. It fills the gaps in the curriculum, It is a great support to pupils with barriers. The manner in which the equipment is designed definitely supports language barriers, which is a great barrier in our school.St Augustine s primary pupils said the adventure room makes them happy at school. If this equipment is used consistently, it definitely enables pupils to read at an earlier stage. Pupils absolutely love the room. It s an escape from reality into a fun world of learning. Coronation Fund Managers also sponsors the transformation of classrooms with murals and equipment to create stimulating learning environments. Acquiring good reading skills in the foundation phase is critical to academic success later on in school. Without it, pupils struggle to progress, group head of marketing Wendy Bergsteedt said. We believe that helping children to read and write well will assist in unlocking South Africa s educational potential. Wavecrest Primary School teacher Averil Oliver said: I feel that its good learning material, it s colourful and attracts the attention of the children. The reading material provides basic knowledge. It makes pupils eager to learn and participate in the programme and it brings a balance to the education system. Wavecrest Primary School Grade 2 pupil Jemimah Hendricks said: I enjoyed learning how to write, playing with the dough and watching the phonics video. Bergsteedt believes that hands-on support of these communities is the solution to eradicate social ills and to enrich the lives of pupils. We are not afraid of facing these issues head-on by physically showing up, it s one of the ways that we show our commitment to changing the trajectory of these communities to achieve long term success, Bergsteedt said.Keitumetsi Motlhale