The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) will today endorse its preferred ANC national executive committee (NEC) top six leadership ahead of the ruling party s December elective conference, with former African Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma tipped to top the list.ANCYL national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said the decision was taken at the league s national executive committee (NEC) meeting at the weekend on whom it would endorse to lead the governing party after its December elective conference. He said that the league would make its announcement today in a press briefing at Luthuli House. The ANC has officially opened the succession debate, including names. I can confirm that we took a decision, it will be done, Mkhize said.Mkhize s comments come on the back of the ANC s MK Veterans Association (MKMVA) punting its preferred top six ANC leadership at its weekend elective conference in Boksburg.While Dlamini-Zuma topped the MKMVA s list as ANC president, David Mabuza was listed as her deputy. Nathi Mthethwa was punted as national chairperson and Ace Magashule and Jessie Duarte as secretary-general and deputy secretary-general respectively.Maite Nkoana-Mashabane was named as its treasurer-general candidate. Mkhize also said the ANCYL would not hold a national general council (NGC) this year. The NEC did not discuss the national general council (NGC). As it stands, there won t be an NGC. The NGC or a special congress is sanctioned by a declaration of the NEC. If the NEC does not declare, then there won t be an NGC. Sources with knowledge of deliberations at the meeting yesterday said the ANCYL was firmly behind DlaminiZuma taking over the reins of the ANC after its December elective conference. One hundred percent, there was no fundamental disagreement, a source said.Sources also said Free State Premier Magashule was the league s preferred successor to ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe. The ANC Women s League (ANCWL) also gave its nod of approval of Dlamini Zuma leading the ANC. Cosatu has, however, endorsed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za