Yvonne Chaka Chaka s Princess of Africa Foundation is hosting a weeklong retreat for its global partners in Johannesburg in a bid to step up efforts to fight malaria, TB and Aids.The musician and humanitarian is a champion for the Global Fund to Fight Aids, TB and Malaria, the UN SDG Envoy for Africa and the Goodwill ambassador for the Roll Back Malaria Partnership.Her foundation on Wednesday held a reception to welcome partners from all over Africa and the US in Sandton.The reception was attended by Dr Tshepo Motsepe-Ramaphosa, Limpopo s MEC for health Phophi Ramathuba, representatives from the Red Cross, TB Alliance and other civil society partners from Zambia, Kenya and Washington DC. We re strategising because we realise that we can t expect government to do everything on its own. We are civil society and we have to come together and see how we can help each other. We need to put up a better strategy to make sure no child goes to bed without eating, no woman dies from Malaria, TB or Aids. We also want to make sure that women are empowered, Chaka Chaka said.The Umqombothi hitmaker was recently in Limpopo after hearing reports about a malaria outbreak. For years, Chaka Chaka has been a dedicated malaria ambassador after her musician Phumzile Ntuli died of the disease in 2004.There had been 624 cases of malaria reported in the province since the start of the year. We did some advocacy work in Limpopo, we spoke to chiefs, we went to schools because young people are very good change agents and will spread the word, she said.Ramathuba said the visit was starting to pay off as the situation was now firmly under control.During her visit to Switzerland last month, Chaka Chaka secured 100000 mosquito nets that will soon be distributed in three provinces including Limpopo.Ramathuba said they welcomed the support from the foundation. We are proud and excited as government, the work of the Princess of Africa Foundation is work we should be doing, but we can t do it alone, she said.Chaka Chaka called on more artists to get involved in humanitarian work. I don t get paid a cent but for me it s giving back. If I was not Yvonne Chaka Chaka I probably would not be here. These people bought my music, they made me who I am, she said.Chaka Chaka is an internationally recognised and highly respected South African singer, songwriter, entrepreneur and humanitarian. She has been at the forefront of South African popular music for more than 32 years and has been popular globally.At the core of her music is her call for social equity and justice, a powerful tool she has used to be the voice of the poor and disenfranchised across the African continent, for more than three decades.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za