Public Service and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi says for service delivery to be efficient and effective, there has to be a professional, accountable and development-oriented public service. Chapter 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa requires that the public service must, among others, maintain and promote a high standard of professional ethics and be accountable, Muthambi said.Speaking at the National Labour Relations Forum held in Durban on Wednesday, Muthambi said all public servants must conduct themselves in a professional and ethical manner when executing their responsibilities. The public service must be professional, transparent, accountable, responsible and developmental. I am clear that for us to succeed, we require professional, effectively coordinated and well-managed state institutions with highly skilled public servants who are committed to serving our people. Muthambi said the government invested a lot of money and time developing individuals to be good managers and skilled administrators, but little time or effort was placed in instilling the culture of service. Our departments. still plagued by high levels of ethical and integrity issues, maladministration, fraud and corruption, continue to be the scourge against developing a professional public sector, thus contributing to poor levels of service delivery.She said what was most worrying was the sheer ignorance of some officials, especially those responsible for managing and maintaining labour relations within their departments. We fail to understand that the employment relationship cannot be fixed through an arbitration award. The employment relationship is only eroded further when we adopt the posture that we ask the courts to decide. She commended public servants who on a daily basis displayed professional, ethical values and behaviour which reflected the values and principles enshrined in section 195(1) of the Constitution, to create an ideal public service as envisaged in the National Development Plan. Without dedicated and professional public servants, the image of the public service and service delivery will be impacted in a negative way. As government, we have committed to working together with organised labour in order to build a harmonious working relationship as this benefits service delivery to our citizens. We have undertaken to engage with organised labour in good faith and in cases where we reach agreements through structures such as the Public Service Coordinating Bargaining Council, we shall honour those agreements. Muthambi also said there was a need for the government to work with various stakeholders to ensure that there was stability in the public service.She said a well-functioning public service machinery would ensure that the government succeeded in addressing the triple challenges of unemployment, poverty and inequality.