Giant global ratings agency Moody’s yesterday warned that the steep decline in South Africa’s business confidence in the second quarter is a setback to economic growth recovery and will further dampen investment. This followed the latest RMB/BER business confidence index published last week, which revealed that the country’s business confidence dropped sharply in the second quarter, suggesting that things are getting worse since the Cabinet reshuffle in March, a move that led to the country being downgraded to junk status by Fitch and S&P. Business confidence is an economic indicator that measures the amount of optimism or pessimism that business managers feel about the prospects for their companies. It also provides an overview of the state of the economy. Unfortunately, the BCI for the second quarter collapsed by 11 points to 29, after hovering in a net negative terrain between 32 and 42 index points over the past year. Ettienne le Roux, chief economist of RMB and the lead researcher of the BCI, said seven out of every 10 respondents are downbeat about prevailing business conditions. “We last saw such despondency during the 2009 recession.” Given the BCI readings, Moody’s, which downgraded South Africa to one notch above junk, followed by banks and 11 corporate state agencies has now strongly warned that given the tumbling of the latest BCI, suggests that the country will take a long time to recover. “Reduced business confidence implies reduced investment, which will negatively affect growth in South Africa’s already weak economy, and will ultimately make fiscal consolidation more challenging,” Moody’s senior analyst Zuzana Brixiova said in a research note. “Without improved trust in policymaking, it is likely that South Africa will remain in a low-growth trap,” she said. South Africa entered recession for the first time in eight years in the first quarter, data showed on June 6, putting pressure on the government just as it must cope with credit downgrades. Moody’s lowered South Africa’s rating to the bottom of the investment grade table with a negative outlook on June 9, citing the recent abrupt Cabinet reshuffle and reduced growth prospects for the economy. S&P’s Global Ratings and Fitch rate South Africa as junk. Several analysts also said that it could take some time for the country’s economy to rebound, especially given the low confidence both by the private sector and consumers. “The big question is where the government should start and how long whatever any measure that will be put into place will start yielding positive results,” an analyst said. “Tough times are still ahead of us.” Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said last week he was looking for ways to cut government spending further and reallocate the funds to help boost growth while maintaining its fiscal targets. –with Reuters bernards@thenewage.co.za