The uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) has dropped Fikile Mbalula from its final list of its preferred ANC top leadership. In an about turn, MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe has announced that the police minister was no longer part of its preferred leadership core.Maphatsoe briefed the media in Johannesburg yesterday.He reiterated MKMVA s call for Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to lead the ANC because the veterans said her record spoke volumes. She is a tried and tested member of the ANC who served the ANC in various capacities and excelled. This would be in acknowledgement of the role she has played in the liberation struggle of the people of South Africa Last week Maphatsoe released a list that included Mbalula as a second deputy secretary-general, while Mbalula threw his weight behind Gauteng premier David Makhura to be the party s secretary general, rather than MKMVA s preferred choice of premier Ace Magashule.The MKMVA s top six slate now includes Dlamini Zuma (president), David Mabuza (deputy president), Nathi Mthethwa (chairperson), Ace Magashule (secretary-general), Jessie Duarte (deputy secretary-general) and Maite Nkoana-Mashabane (treasurergeneral). The ANC is to host its elective conference in December.Maphatsoe also dismissed perceptions that its recently held elective conference was illegitimate.He poured cold water on claims made by the MK National Council and a group of former disgruntled MKMVA veterans that the MKMVA elective conference, which saw Maphatsoe return to the helm of the organisation, was a sham. The delegates had presented their credentials and were dully registered. We reject with contempt the unsubstantiated allegations that the selection and accreditation of the delegates were fraudulent, he said.He accused the group of former MKMVA members, who lost their positions at the conference, of having an agenda against the organisation. It was at the Birchwood Conference Centre.There was a meeting there and the director general introduced the state security agency people. We asked them what they were doing at the conference because it s not a government event, it s an MK military veterans association event, Maphatsoe said.He also denied a media report that he had forced the Department of Military Veterans to pay R8m for MKMVA s elective conference. He said his organisation had proof that no one was forced to pay for the conference, held in Ekurhuleni.According to the media report, Maphatsoe twisted arms to get the department s acting director general Max Ozynski to pay the R8m. Maphatsoe insisted the MKMVA followed procedures in requesting the funding and wrote a letter to the department. I did not twist the DG s hand. I don t have executive powers to do that. I could have been charged by now. The facts are that the minister authorised funding for the conference, he said.Maphatsoe said the MKMVA also backed Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane s decision to finalise the Mining Charter.AKANI MANGENAnews@thenewage.co.za