From the buildings to the toilets and water, Dedeni Senior Primary School in Lusikisiki, near Eastern Cape, is in a poor state.Hotline Media CEO Ace Ncobo shared these sentiments on Facebook after he saw the school s dire conditions. He called on the public to raise funds to assist the school.Ncobo said: No child deserves to call that thing my school . He says there is an obligation to restore the dignity and pride of the children for them to grow and become meaningfully contributing adults with the requisite levels of self-esteem. Social media platforms are largely used for negative things such as gossip, insults and generally to exercise the pull him/her down syndrome . I know that not enough will be raised via a social media campaign but I sought to show that social media can be a powerful platform for good causes, Ncobo said.He says that not even pigs can be housed in such horrible and dangerous structures.Ncobo says the school needs eight classrooms, an admin block, ablution and sporting facilities, security fencing, laboratories and a library. The goal comes in two phases, to address the immediate need for classrooms, accommodation and later to ensure that additional items, which no school can operate without, are added on, Ncobo said.He encouraged pupils to never allow the physical conditions of their learning environment to deter them from striving for a better future.Ncobo said he also grew up in poverty-stricken rural areas and received teaching inside community-built rickety structures not much better than theirs but pursued education as the key for self-empowerment. Dedeni Senior Primary School principal Nomahlubi Jokazi says conditions are so bad that goats come into the class and bug them. Pupils get cold because the building has no windows. Some pupils have left the school because other kids mock them for attending here. This has resulted in not having educated young people in this village, Jokazi said.Jokazi says she is happy the fencing material has arrived and they are now waiting for the toilet material.The department of education also assessed the condition of the school. I am happy that things are starting to improve, Jokazi said. Grades R to 2 are studying outside the school premises because of the condition of the school and I fight a lot with the teachers because of this. I am happy that things are goingto change for the better now, Jokazi said.She says the support from the public has been phenomenal with more than R50000 raised. Ncobo said more money would be coming in. Despite these conditions, the team of teachers I have is strong and they love the work they do. This assists in pupils getting good results. Eastern Cape education spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima says five temporary classrooms will be constructed for this community. We also intend to provide the school with ablution facilities, water and electricity. Our understanding is that the Facebook page for the school is meant to co-ordinate voluntary contributions by community members and is meant to complement the contribution of the department. This is to ensure pupils learn in a conductive environment, Mtima said.He said the department appreciates good citizens who are willing to contribute to change their communities.SISANDA MADWANTSIsisandam@thenewage.co.za