Oupa Manyisa has sought divine intervention as Orlando Pirates look to avoid possible utter dismal season, heading into a successive Nedbank Cup showdown with SuperSport United this weekend.Going into his career fourth Nedbank final, Manyisa knows exactly how it feels to miss out on major silverware. And his fears of an annus horribilis season could well be realised, should the Buccaneers mess up another final against cup nemesis United at Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Despite everything that happened this season, we ve got a cup final. It shows that God is on our side. He is giving us our last chance and we have to prove to him by winning this cup, Manyisa said.Without quite quoting from the holy book, Manyisa went on to share his frustrations following a poor season in which Pirates failed to the top-eight cut for the first time in PSL history. But in the same breath the Bucs skipper refused to dwell much on the past, insisting the team was fully focused on the upcoming cup final. Everything that happened this season we have to forget about it, Manyisa said.It s going to take a positive mind to win against United, from the technical team down to the players. We can t dwell on the past or the fact that United often gives us problems. In his nine years at Pirates, Manyisa has so far collected seven trophies, including the 2011 and 2014 Nedbank accolades. But it would take something extraordinary for Manyisa and his team- mates to over- come the psychologi- cal barrier, inflicted by the 6-1 league defeat by United, to triumph against the Pretoria cup specialists.The added incentive of returning to the CAF Confederation Cup, through Nedbank Cup success, has also been the driving force for the likes of Manyisa, Mpho Makola and Happy Jele, who ve reached two CAF cup finals. Look, we know what we are up against and we can never underestimate the challenge we are facing in this final, Manyisa said. We are not too relaxed. The fact that they ve been playing recently and we haven t been playing goes two ways.It can affect them as much as it can affect us. This is a cup final and everyone wants to lift the cup. But most importantly we really want to go back to CAF competition. We enjoyed playing on the continent. The Buccaneers looked to be in high spirits in an open training yesterday, coach Kjell Jonevret moulding a team likely to start in the final. It s been nearly a month since they last played their last match, missing out on the top eight with a 2-1 loss to Arrows and it remains to be seen which Pirates team will turn up on the big final day.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za