A PLENARY session of Cosatu s central committee meeting yesterday weighed up the pros and cons of upping the ante against President Jacob Zuma with a proposed march to Luthuli House later this month.Communication Workers Union general secretary Aubrey Tshabalala said Cosatu s central executive committee (CEC) decision to call on Zuma to step down was not enough. He said Cosatu should take their antiZuma campaign to the streets with a proposed march to the ANC s Luthuli House headquarters on June 15, a day before Youth Day. What the campaign (CEC decision) did not make emphasis on is how. It is very important for Cosatu to go back to the basics. When we have a campaign, we don t talk about it behind closed doors or corridors. We are saying now, Cosatu must take this action to the streets.Perhaps on June 15 before the 16th, we march to Luthuli House to make emphasis on this campaign. This comes on the back of Zuma having survived an ANC national executive committee scare where a motion of no confidence in him was tabled and debated.This also comes against the background of mounting calls from the ANC s alliance partners for Zuma to step down after they said he had erroneously reshuffled his Cabinet in March. Liberated Metalworkers Union of SA president Sibonelo Mdletshe seconded the motion. He said a march to the ANC s headquarters would hit Zuma where it hurt most. We need to take this very seriously. It must be formulated by Cosatu. All of us as members of ANC branches must go there and influence those people. Radical economic transformation has come to confuse members of the ANC in branches.People think that exchanging former finance minister Pravin Gordhan with Malusi Gigaba amounts to radical economic transformation. This can t be correct. The South African Democratic Teachers Union also threw its weight behind the motion. We must target the 14th and 15th of June. Our message will get to where it s supposed to get. Cosatu national organiser Theo Steele said earlier that Cosatu CEC s call on Zuma to leave office failed to achieve its objective. If such a decision does not happen, the central committee must guide us in action to be taken, she said. National Union of Mineworkers acting education secretary Sabelo Mgotywa stood up and rubbished Zuma s presidency. We are proposing that we march on the 15th to say Zuma must go. We are tired of him, he said. However, National Education Health and Allied Workers Union first deputy president Mike Shingange cautioned delegates on the matter.He said a march to Luthuli House would exacerbate already strained relations within the ANC-led tripartite alliance. I don t think it would be strategic that we should have an organisational campaign. It s not strategic for Cosatu to march to Luthuli House.What s stopping the ANC from marching to Cosatu House? We should rather have a campaign against state capture.It does not mean that we should water down our call for the president to step down, Shingange said. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union echoed Nehawu s position on the matter. It s a knee-jerk reaction, we cannot march to Luthuli House. BONOLO SELEBANO