West Coast Resources responded to ANN7 investigation on the building of cofferdams ahead of the approval of an environmental impact study. &#8220;West Coast Resources (in which Trans Hex holds a 40% stake) operates in the Namaqualand region of the Northern Cape. The Company s operations currently include beach-mining activities which fully comply with existing Environmental Management Programmes ( EMPs ). These EMPs have been approved by the relevant authorities and the activities have been inspected by the Department of Mineral Resources ( DMR ) and found to be fully in accordance with environmental regulations and government-approved environmental plans. To accommodate future operations, a revised Environmental Impact Assessment ( EIA ) was filed during January 2016 with the DMR. The EIA process has complied with all the relevant regulations, including two rounds of public comment. The DMR s decision regarding this matter is pending and the final outcome is expected in April. The Company is proud of the positive impact it has had on the communities surrounding its operations and has grown to be one of the biggest employers in the area. By creating more than 280 jobs to date, it has helped alleviate the high level of unemployment currently experienced in these communities. Recruitment focuses on attracting candidates from local communities, with an emphasis on previously disadvantaged individuals, including women and the youth. Currently, more than 70% of all West Coast Resources employees are local residents from the nearby communities of, amongst others, Kommagas, Kleinzee, Nababeep, Concordia, Okiep, Koingnaas, Buffelsrivier, Hondeklip Bay and Soebatsfontein. West Coast Resources maintains a good working relationship with the local authorities and regularly consults with these recognised bodies to ensure its support of the communities surrounding its operations are in accordance with the short- and long-term needs of these towns. The Company has developed and supports various Small-, Medium- and Macro-sized Enterprises in the region. Over the past two years, West Coast Resources and Trans Hex have jointly contributed more than R3,69 million toward local education, infrastructure and poverty alleviation projects in the area. Kind regards West Coast Resources 