With Hashim Amla in outstanding form, this was precisely the start the Proteas needed if they are to have a chance of lifting the ICC Champions Trophy in the UK.Amla is enjoying a rich vein of form after he notched 103 in the opening match against Sri Lanka on Saturday, when the Proteas recorded a 96 runsvictory. That followed the two tons he scored in the Indian Premier League in April and the Proteas will hope the runs keep coming. However, Amla alone won t guide the team to glory and will also need support from the other top six batsmen.Against Sri Lanka, Amla and Faf du Plessis put together a 145 run stand. Du Plessis contributed 75 runs to South Africa s 299 total and captain AB de Villiers was full of praise for the two batsmen. It was an amazing innings. He did really well to assess the conditions and communicated well with us what kind of score is going to be good, De Villiers said. It s important for the first 10, 15 overs not to lose too many wickets. Of course, there was quite a lot in that wicket early on and it was really tough to score. Both the opening batsmen sent a message back to the changing room. Both of them normally bat around a 100 strike rate without even trying, so that told the story. So when we saw that, it was always going to be important to have a bit of a foundation or a base to play from. I think Faf played well coming in that situation. We were going at around just under three an over when he came in to bat, so there was big pressure there. Leg-spinner Imran Tahir was also impressive for the Proteas in the bowling department. Tahi finished with 4-27 as Sri Lanka were bowled out for 203. It was close to 10 out of 10. Not only with the ball in hand but that run-out. It always shows me where the player is at when he shows that kind of dedication and commitment in the field, De Villiers said. Immy is a great asset for us. He takes wickets and is also economical most of the time. He had a fantastic performance. The Proteas next match is against Pakistan on Wednesday at Edgbaston in Birmingham at 2.30pm.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za