An elective conference of the ANC s MK Veterans Association (MKMVA) ended yesterday with Kebby Maphatsoe returning to the helm of the organisation.The MKMVA s conference in Boksburg saw 697 delegates out of 901 nailing their colours to the mast for their preferred candidates to assume leadership roles in the ANC s military veterans association.In addition, 201 delegates abstained from voting and 28 spoilt ballots were recorded. While Maphatsoe s post was changed to president, treasurer general Des van Rooyen also retained his position.Also elected were Taylor Ntsimbini (deputy president), Wiseman Ntobela (general secretary), Jan Rametsi (1st deputy secretary general) and Nono Mophethe (2nd deputy secretary general).Meanwhile, an MKMVA national conference special resolutions document revealed the organisation s preferred top six leadership of the ANC at its December elective conference.Former African Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma topped the list for the role of ANC president, Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza was punted as ANC deputy president, Nathi Mthethwa as national chairperson, Ace Magashule and Jessie Duarte as secretary-general and deputy secretary-general respectively, and Maite Nkoana-Mashabane as treasurer-general.Also revealed in the document was Leon Mkhabela replacing Thembile Magingxa as South African National Military Veterans Association (SANMVA) president. An organisational report presented to the MKMVA congress also took the SACP and Cosatu to task for their continued resistance to the leadership of President Jacob Zuma.MKMVA said in the report that neither of the ANC s alliance partners could unilaterally determine who should lead the ruling party. We see this faction bringing foreign culture into the ranks of our movement in the name of our vanguard party. Among other wrong tendencies are to use the party and Cosatu to declare preferred interests as to who will lead the ANC. The Communist Party and Cosatu have absolutely no right to decide who should lead the ANC. Equally, the ANC has no right to choose who should lead either the SACP or Cosatu. However, MKMVA national executive committee (NEC) member Ike Moroe said a group of disaffected MKMVA NEC members would challenge the outcome of the election results. The conference is unconstitutional and fraudulent. We don t believe that its outcome will have any material effect. We ll present ourselves to the ANC and express our disappointment with the leadership that has emerged, Moroe said.He also said that he was dismayed by Zuma s attendance of the conference. I think it was wrong for them to invite the president. We believe that the president was informed but we are happy that he did indicate that there were concerns. Last week some former MKMVA office bearers distanced themselves from the conference.-BONOLO SELEBANO