SuperSport United will use tonight s CAF Confederation Cup match against TP Mazembe as preparation for their Nedbank Cup final against Orlando Pirates on Saturday.They host Mazembe at Lucas Moripe stadium with eyes on the final at Moses Mabhida. They go into this fixture joint group leaders with Mazembe and Horoya on five points ,with goal differences separating them. Despite playing on the continent since the domestic season ended last month, goalkeeper Ronwen Williams believes the Mazembe match will show how far they are in terms of readiness for the cup final. The game is a perfect preparation for the cup final, to see where we are at the moment, Williams said. This is a big week for SuperSport and if we can beat these two giants of African football, it will say a lot about where the club is going. Despite having eyes on the cup final, Matsatsantsa a Pitori are fully aware that they cannot afford to mess up against Mazembe. With three teams in their group sitting on five points, United will need to win tonight or avoid defeat if they are to keep their chances of making the quarterfinals. It s a bit tricky because all three teams are sitting on five points and I m sure that Horoya will win their game against CF Mounana, so they will go to eight points, Williams said. If we want to go to the quarterfinals we have to beat Mazembe at home. I think we still have two home games and obviously, if we win those, everything will be fine for us. We must win home games to make it easy for us but we are unbeaten in this tournament. We need to show character on the day and then hopefully we can go all the way. Despite not having had sufficient rest since the end of last season, the 25 year old brushed off concerns that the players are at risk of burnout. I don t think fatigue plays a role. Where we are now, playing TP Mazembe, is what we need right now. This is part of being a professional footballer. I d rather be in this position, playing in the cup final at the weekend and playing against Mazembe midweek. In three weeks time we could be in a CAF quarterfinal. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za