THE South Gauteng High Court yesterday declared Section 18 of the Criminal Procedure Act unconstitutional in what has been described as a victory for victims of sexual abuse.This comes after the Frankel 8 took the matter to court, challenging the section, which carried a 20-year expiry date on sexual abuse cases. The eight accused the late billionaire, stockbroker Sidney Frankel, of sexually abusing them when they were children about 30 years ago.The victims were precluded from instituting criminal charges against Frankel in 2015 due to the prescriptive law. Handing down the judgment in what s now become known as the Frankel 8 case, acting judge Claire Hartford, declared the section invalid and ordered that the law be sent to Parliament to be amended. Frankel died of cancer at his home earlier this year.The eight have instituted civil claims against his estate. The ruling comes 13 years since the landmark ruling by the Supreme Court of Appeal in which it was ruled that adult survivors of child abuse can sue their abuser for civil damages no matter when the abuse occurred. Until now, the law did not allow for victims of sexual abuse cases that does not include penetration, occurring prior to 2007, to have their cases heard in court.The ruling will now go to the Constitutional Court for confirmation. Lawyer for the eight, Ian Levitt, said they expect the confirmation by the ConCourt very soon. Women and Men Against Child Abuse (WMACA), an organisation advocating against the abuse of children labelled the ruling as a victory for children s rights and survivors of abuse.The organisation said the ruling proves that molestation can be as bad as a rape . We always thought of rape being a penetrative crime and much more serious than other sexual offences. There is no empirical evidence to show that rape is any worse than sexual assault, fondling or inappropriate touching. The emotional damage can manifest in similar ways over the sexual abuse spectrum, WMACA director Miranda Friedman said.WMACA has been actively supporting the eight victims in challenging the prescriptive law, saying they should be allowed to have their cases heard in court regardless of when the crime happened.The organisation was also instrumental in the prosecution of convicted rapist, former tennis champion Bob Hewitt, who is serving a jail sentence after being found guilty of raping and sexually assaulting Theresa Twiggy Tolken, Suellen Sheehan and an unnamed third woman.LERATO DIALE leratod@thenewage.co.za