THE eight-year prison sentence handed down to a 47-year-old man from Mzingazi near Richards Bay for the attempted murder of his ex-girlfriend has been lauded by the province s director of public prosecutions.The culprit appeared in the Empangeni Regional Court on Friday. During his trial, it had emerged that the accused, who cannot be named to protect the identity of his victim, had been in a long-term relationship with the woman when she found out he was married.The victim ended their relationship but the accused refused to accept her decision and continued to pursue her. At some stage, the relationship had been violent as the victim had charged the accused with domestic violence.After the relationship ended, the man s girlfriend began a relationship with another woman, which angered the accused. He allegedly told the victim s sister that he would kill her for leaving him for another woman, leading to him accosting the victim at a bus stop and attempting to drag her off the bus. Her family members were alerted and as her sister reached the area, she heard a gunshot.She found her sister lying on the ground with a gunshot wound to her head. The sister phoned the accused but he told her that he was now finished with the complainant. The director of public prosecutions, advocate Moipone Noko, said the guilty verdict and the eight-year sentence was welcomed by the justice system. This is an excellent sentence. It shows that the National Prosecuting Authority and our partners in the justice system are doing their best to protect victims of crime. This was also a hate crime and we protect all members of the community, the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual (LGBTI) community, in this instance. People of this country should be safe, irrespective of their sexual preference. The fact that the accused has been declared unfit to possess a firearm is also appreciated, Noko said. The victim gave a harrowing account on how the shooting had affected her life.The bullet fired by the accused had lodged itself in her head and its removal had left her with sight impairments. She has lost her job as she cannot see properly and now needs to be assisted by others.She also told the court about the physical and emotional abuse she was subjected to when she was in a relationship with the accused.SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO