There has been an increase in the number of HIV infections among teachers in South Africa from 12.7% in 2004 to 15.3% in 2015.This is according to a 2016 survey compiled by the Human Sciences Research Council on the Health of Educators in Public Schools in South Africa.A high HIV prevalence was found among black people, those with low education levels, low disposable income, unmarried and widowed and among those teaching in rural informal areas. HIV prevalence was found to be highest in KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and the Eastern Cape.Although the Western Cape ranked lowest, there has been an increase in HIV prevalence over time, from 1.1% in 2004 to 3.4% in 2015. The analysis shows that about 3000 new HIV infections occurred among teachers in 2015. Female teachers had a higher incidence than males a finding similar to that observed among adults aged 25 years and older in the general population in 2012. HIV incidence was also higher in younger teachers, those who were not married and those living in rural areas, the report said.Among other things, the report saidthe silent epidemics that affected teachers. Most teachers who took part in the survey reported being diagnosed with high blood pressure, 22.1%, diabetes 9% and stomach ulcers 9.1%.In the previous survey conducted in 2004, only 4.5% of teachers said they suffered from diabetes.The increase in non-communicable diseases is consistent with data from a national survey.Obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease accounted for 20% of mortality in South Africa.Alcohol abuse was also found to be most likely a high risk among teachers who were low income earners.A higher proportion of male teachers, 9.6%, were found to be high-risk drinkers compared to their female counterparts at 1.2%. It was also found that low income earners had a higher propensity to be high-risk drinkers compared to other income groups. Being male and having a low socio-economic status has been shown to be associated with high-risk drinking, the report said.In the study, 13.7% of teachers who had been screened for TB reported that they had been diagnosed, while 10.3% of the educators reported that they had at least one TB symptom. There were low levels of TB-related stigma found in this study. Most teachers were willing to share meals with someone with TB, work or study with someone with TB and hug a person with TB. However, there were differences by race with mostly white and Indian/Asian teachers indicating they would neither share a meal nor work with or hug a person with TB. The Human Sciences Research Council said while teachers held overall positive attitudes towards people living with HIV and or TB they were still ambivalent about disclosing their HIV status. The Department of Basic Education should foreground the importance of positive attitudes toward HIV among teachers and pupils, as a means to encourage tolerance in the school setting and the surrounding community. LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za