The provision of toilets in rural and township schools across the province is below 30% to accommodate pupils who have disabilities, Equal Education (EE) said.EE said in its Western Cape Schools Safety and Sanitation Audit Report that at 74% of schools that were audited, there was no toilet for pupils with disabilities. Furthermore, this was even worse for rural schools, where 86% had no toilet for disabled pupils, the report said. At 74% of schools that we audited, there were no toilets for pupils with disabilities. The education department needs to audit every school that doesn t have proper infrastructure for disabled pupils and put together a plan to urgently provide this infrastructure. However, the department of basic education disputed the claim by EE and said there were crucial errors contained in the methodology of the audit.Departmental spokesperson, Jessica Shelver, said: The methodology used by EE is questionable. We have responded several times to these allegations in terms of its claim that only one in four schools have sanitation infrastructure for disabled pupils. The statement said at 74% of sample schools there was no toilet for persons with disabilities , which is incorrect and should have been in 180 schools, instead of creating an impression that within the department 1253 schools do not have facilities for disabled pupils. Education MEC Debbie Sch fer said: It is quite clear from the report on the standing committee meeting with EE that they have been dishonest. They did not mention the detailed response that I gave to them last year, after they eventually handed me their report. If the EE provides us with the names of schools that are not complying with these standards our district will take this up with them. The fact is that there were no names of schools given in the report is merely making sweeping allegations. We asked the EE to provide us with the names of the schools that were not complying with these standards so our district office could take it up with them. We have not received a response, Sch fer said.The demands of the EE include that no disabled pupil should be excluded from public ordinary schools because of infrastructure and disabled pupils must also be provided for in terms of sports and other activities.Furthermore, pupils who have disabilities that require them to be in special schools must have access to those schools.Sch fer was adamant that since providing the EE with a response to their audit, they had never communicated with her office on this since. They have not provided my office with any feedback, especially on the issue of their flawed methodology which was quite clearly highlighted in our response, or with regards to our request to provide names of schools where it has not been provided. Nor have they requested a meeting to this effect, Sch fer said.-TNA REPORTER