Despite their failure to win their CAF Champions League group stage match in Tunis against Esperance, Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane is still targeting progression to the quarterfinals.The Brazilians played to a goalless draw against the Tunisian giants at the Stade Olympic, where Sundowns striker Percy Tau fluffed a glorious chance that could have given the defending champions the lead.Mosimane said it would take some clever play in their next two matches to make it out of the group.Sundowns, third in Group C with five points, travel to Addis Ababa next Saturday to play against St George, who are second with five points.Esperance, who will travel to Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo, remain top of the group with eight points, while AS Vita are bottom with three points.Though he was happy that his side welcomed back Yannick Zakri, captain Hlompho Kekana and Anthony Laffor, the Sundowns coach bemoaned the missed chances against Esperance and called for a strong response against St George. We played tactically well. There was a lot of discipline. We had one clear chance in the beginning with Percy. We could have taken it but Percy apart from that played well. You take what you get. Esperance played the way we expected that they would at home. We should have not lost to them in Pretoria. We also had a stronger team with Kekana, Zakri and Laffor back, Mosimane said. We now have to see the bigger picture. We have to try harder to progress. It would be better to be top, but even second takes us there. It will be difficult in Addis Ababa. Esperance are going to Kinshasa and that will not be easy. We have to remain No 2 after the Addis Ababa match. Esperance fought for a point. We also could not open ourselves up. With their last group game at home against Vita, Sundowns will need to beat St George next week to move to eight points and keep the Ethiopians on five points, while also hoping that Vita either beat or draw against Esperance to keep the group wide open.In that way, the Brazilians will be able to decide their fate on home soil, in what will be their most important match, especially since they have not won any of their home games to date.The first home game ended in a draw against St George, with the second being a dramatic 2-1 defeat to Esperance.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za