Convicted model agency boss Dawie de Villiers s much anticipated sentencing was postponed yet again, this time to allow the court to complete the transcripts of his trial.Prosecutor Arveena Persad said the head of transcribers Ricki Ferrera sent an email stating that she had received the audio last Thursday and needed time to transcribe. She said there were certain days where information is missing. We have no choice but to postpone the matter for her to fully transcribe everything, the prosecutor said.Persad said because there were days missing, Ferrera had asked for the help desk to assist her to get information. Transcripts for at least eight days were still outstanding. De Villiers appeared to be relaxed before the high court judge Cassim Moosa.The judge gave the transcriber two weeks to finish the report and provide it to both parties before June 27. The prosecutor said the matter needed to be finalised as soon as possible as she believed that De Villiers was delaying the case on purpose. It has been going for a long time, she said.At his previous court appearance last month, Persad said De Villiers decision to seek a new Legal Aid lawyer was a delaying tactic.She also said his bail should be revoked as his victims were at risk. He was found guilty of rape, sexual assault, sexual grooming, fraud, exposure of pornography to children and access to child pornography.Meanwhile, the trial of Mark Warona Zinde, son of former SABC board member Hope Zinde was yesterday postponed to June 16 for an application by the defence for a psychiatric reassessment. The 23 year old stands accused of killing his mother and being in possession of drugs.The state alleges the murder happened at their home in Hartbeespoort Dam. Hope s lifeless body was found in the boot of her car at the Pecanwood Estate in June last year.Zinde was referred to undergo psychiatric evaluation at the Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital in Pretoria following his arrest. The assessment report declared he was fit to stand trial and was capable of understanding court proceedings.NONDUMISO ZWANEnondumisoz@thenewage.co.za