The disappointment of being relegated to the bench and at times to the stands has been difficult to bear for Polokwane City striker Thobani Mncwango.This is despite the fact that he was the team s prolific striker in the first half of the recently concluded Absa Premiership season. The bizarre decision by Rise and Shine meant Mncwango missed most of their matches, with the goal-scoring burden falling squarely on the shoulders of Rodney Ramagalela and Jabulani Maluleka. Ramagalela contributed a total of nine goals, while captain Maluleka came in with seven from a deep midfield position. Mncwango scored three goals this season and he continues to attract interest from other teams in the league.Despite everything that happened, the player, who is a heavy Orlando Pirates target, said he will wait for his side to decide on his future, even though he is happy at Polokwane City. I know that the last time people asked me if I am happy here (at Polokwane City), the story was blown out of proportion. I am happy and I am looking forward to the new season. Of course, it was disappointing to not play so many matches even though I was fit. For now I will wait for the team to decide on my future for the next season, Mncwango said. But in all honesty, I am happy for my teammates. It was our plan at the start of the season to make the top eight and in the end, we managed to do that. I would have loved to score more goals, the striker, who was at some point in the Bafana Bafana squad, said. While he is waiting to see what role he will play in the next season, Mncwango has promised 20 goals and a return to Bafana next year if he can play regularly in a team that will offer him a quality supply. I think 20 goals is possible. The defenders have gotten better, but the way I am fit and confident, I believe I can score 20 goals or more next season.That is what I want. I know that will also help me get back in Bafana because believe I have what it takes to add value there. There is a new coach who gives everyone a chance and I also believe I can get there, Mncwango said. Kaizer Chiefs too were at some point rumoured to be after Mncwango. His unexplained spell on the sidelines saw coach Luc Eymael resign from his job, but was later forced back to Polokwane, where he has not been doing any coaching.-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za