&nbsp;LAND invasions in Gauteng have racked up a bill of half a billion rand in unpaid legal fees and money owed to security companies. Provincial human settlements spokesperson Keith Khoza said the R500m was a result of the past 12 months efforts to stop the spread of new informal settlements. Most informal settlements are sporadic. People just invade private and public land. This is becoming a costly exercise for us, as this is money that was not budgeted for, Khoza said. Khoza said the number of informal settlements in Gauteng had spiked to 639 in the past five years as more people demanded housing. The New Age visited two informal settlements, Stjwetla in Johannesburg and Themba Khoza in Ekurhuleni, and found residents living in squalor. Stjwetla resident Tshepiso Mogale, an unemployed mother of two, said she wanted a house, flushing toilet, water and electricity. Nomsa Buthelezi, a 54-year-old mother of seven, who came to Johannesburg from KwaZulu-Natal, said she was tired of the inhumane living conditions . I want an RDP house. I registered in 2000. I am angry because I vote but my life is not improving, Buthelezi said. She took the team to her pit toilet that she built herself. The area has a number of taps but lacks proper sanitation and electricity. Khoza said the continued migration into the province was behind the spread of informal settlements. More than 200000 people come to Gauteng every year. They come to look for jobs and can t afford rent so they resort to creating informal settlements while looking for jobs. We also have a situation of immigrants from Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Malawi and so on who come to look for jobs. Our battle against reducing informal settlements has not been successful given this challenge, Khoza said. Johannesburg has been the worst affected in the past five years, with 181 informal settlements confirmed. Tragically, we inherited a situation where a number of communities did not have access to adequate basic services. This is something we are committed to addressing, city of Joburg spokesperson Tony Taverna-Turisan said. He said that R574m in capital expenditure and R115m in operational expenditure had been allocated for the upgrading of 10 informal settlements in the city for the 2017-18 financial year. Taverna-Turisan said 51 informal settlements would be upgraded over the medium term at a cost of R1.9bn. Tshwane spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi is equally worried about the growing number of land invasions. It is estimated that informal settlements have grown to 173 in the past five years, Mgobozi said. He also blamed the influx of people looking for economic opportunities and better living conditions for the spike. About 10 000 people migrate to Gauteng on a monthly basis and most of these people settle in metropolitan areas such as the city of Tshwane. This translates more often to homelessness and the formation of informal settlements, Mgobozi said. South Africa had about 2000 informal settlements housing 1 million people across the country when the last census was conducted in 2011. That number is said to have almost doubled as urban migration drives more people to metros. Khoza said the housing backlog presently sits at more than 600000. It is largely to blame for the 90 service delivery major protests that have taken place this year, he said. Taverna-Turisan said the city was working at providing better living conditions. ANC Gauteng chairperson Paul Mashatile was recently in Etwatwa, Ekurhuleni where he discouraged these protests. He said it looked like it was a fashion to protest. He urged people to be patient, Khoza said. Khoza said the government was embarking on mega city projects to build 10000 units. ntombin@thenewage.co.za NTOMBI NKOSI, NONHLANHLA MASEKO AND ADELAIDE MOHALE