The provincial government has partnered with NGOs, NPOs and communities to fight crime in the province.The department of community safety and transport management said the implementation of 10 by 10 campaigns continued to strengthen the partnership on the fight against crime in the province.The department said: In one of the activities, the department held a meeting at the Ventersdorp police station with NGOs, NPOs and Community Policing Forums (CPFs), to discuss ways of working together in an integrated manner to fight crime including funding models available in the security sectors, specifically dedicated to efforts geared towards the drastic reduction of crime in general. Safety and transport MEC Mpho Motlhabane said it was exciting to see communities coming forth to work with the government wilfully in fighting the scourge of crime. What excites us more is that we are starting to see even more men coming forth to fight domestic violence and all elements of crime within our communities, Motlhabane said. Men are mostly perpetrators, now with more men coming forth in registered structures and being prepared to stand up against this scourge, we are satisfied that we are moving in the right direction.This is a positive sign that we will win this fight against crime. During the state of provincial address, Premier Supra Mahumapelo said with the reduction of 1% on property related crimes among others, the province had come up with an annual operational plan to mitigate the problematic crimes. A multidisciplinary approach is still needed in addressing crime, Mahumapelo said. It is therefore important that other key stakeholders such as the community through the CPFs, other government departments and the business community participate in bringing the crime levels down. Meanwhile, the department of community safety has started its implementation of community safety patrollers programme which was officially announced by MEC Mpho Mohlabane, during his 2017-18 budget vote at the provincial legislature at the beginning of the financial year.Motlhabane said the department would recruit about 400 community patrollers in the four districts of the province. We need crime prevention activists in every town and village of the province in order to win the battle against crime, Motlhabane said. These crimes, we admit, take place on our doorstep and we, the communities, know the people who commit them. So if all of us become first to respond to a crime alert, we will definitely win the fight against crime. To date, the department has already signed contracts with patrollers in different local municipalities, where the it will recruit at least 100 patrollers for each district.The engagements and consultations are continuing in other communities through these campaigns.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za