It s very rare to find the chairperson of a club taking responsibility and owning up to a team s failure ,Baroka FC owner Khurishi Mphahlele is one of the few out there.After his club managed to cheat the relegation axe through the promotional/relegation playoffs at the weekend, Mphahlele admitted to a huge blunder early in the season. Baroka finished at the top of the mini-league with eight points following their 1-1 draw woth Black Leopards at Thohoyandou Stadium on Saturday. Playoffs hero Victor Letsoalo was again on the scoresheet while Siphelele Ntshangase scored for Lidoda Duvha. We made a big mistake in the past season, a relieved Mphahlele said. We signed a lot of players who were not PSL material. We signed more than any other team in the PSL as people can see we have jersey numbers 53 and 54 which shows how many players we signed. That was the biggest mistake we made at the beginning of the season. Signing each and every player we thought was good, he said. At the beginning of their new season in the big time, Baroka signed at least 15 players and most of them had no Premiership experience.That resulted in the club spending most of their time in the bottom half of the table and had to fight to keep their status in the playoffs against Leopards and Stellenbosch FC. We are going to sign wisely now and bring every player that we think will add value to the team. Even if we sign four players, I will be very happy, the chairperson said. Mphahlele said the players who were signed by the club made it hard for coach Kgoloko Thobejane to be successful in his job. Those players we signed before, you can call any top coach in the world, he will fail. Thobejane, who was demoted twice from his head coach post at some point, didn t only receive praise from Mphahlele for saving the club but he also promised to sign top players for him. What he did for this team we are going to reward him by signing good players. He is a good coach, loved by people and he knows football. -SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za