A Manenberg Primary School was burgled seven times in the past month, with damages amounting to an estimated R200000.Eight burglaries were reported at the non-fee paying Easter Peak Primary since the beginning of the year. Before the recent spate of burglaries, an incident was reported in January.Principal Ebrahim Joseph said: This is heartbreaking, 725 pupils are being robbed of their education. The damage I estimate at R200000. It is worth more than what they have stolen. Twelve classrooms were broken into and the girls and boys bathrooms were damaged.Some workbooks and assignments were also drenched, due to water damage from burst pipes and water leaking through broken roofs.Stolen items included basin taps, light fittings, wiring, cisterns, plumbing pipes and eight floodlights. Ceiling boards were dismantled and roof sheets broken. I don t know why they took the plastic, there is no more copper here. I don t know where they sell it, Joseph said.He said the education department was assessing the damage. Joseph said he had to be strong for pupils and teachers.Teacher Senami Syce said: My classroom is completely dark. When I discovered the class was broken into, I cried because I felt myself and my children were violated. Speakers I use for them were stolen, money we raised was stolen, she said.The teachers and principal believed the attack on the school was well thought out.Syce explained that first the floodlights were stolen to leave the school in darkness. The cables were cut systematically. Classes were targeted one by one and the openings in the ceilings were only small enough to fit a child.Western Cape department of education spokesperson Millicent Merton confirmed the break-ins. The school has experienced eight burglaries and received night security, however, the break-ins happened during the day at the weekend. The school will now receive 24-hour security at weekends, Merton said.Joseph said cases were made, but no suspects had been arrested. It hurts because it is our own community. I know the conditions in the community, I grew up here, but it does not make what they are doing right. Now money that could have been spent on material and things for pupils, has to be spent on fixing the school. He pleaded with the community: It is your turn to step up. If you know who the suspects are, bring their names forward. Joseph said the school welcomed donations and any help offered.Easter Peak Primary can be contacted on 0216993000 or easterpeakps@yahoo.com. Alternatively Joseph can be contacted directly on 0849016871.Last year by July, 21 Western Cape schools were burgled or vandalised during the winter school holidays.The worst damage was caused by an arson attack at an Athlone school, which cost more than R100000 to fix, Western Cape education department MEC Debbie Sch fer said in a statement.The cost of the repairs for just more than half the schools was about R500000.A total of 18 incidents were reported in the same period in 2015.Last year most were reported in the Cape Winelands district, which had eight criminal acts, followed by the Metro Central district, with five.One school in Metro Central was targeted on three occasions, despite having 24-hour security. Six schools were targeted twice during the holidays, which brings the total number of actual incidents to 30.All but one of the incidents was classified as minor, where the estimated cost of repairs was less than R100000 and the schools ability to function was not impacted in any way, Sch fer said last year in a statement.In the Athlone arson case, a classroom was set alight. Desks, chairs, books and e-learning equipment were destroyed.Sch fer expressed disappointment at the increase in such crimes, despite increased security control measures at high-risk schools.Because school properties were large, it was difficult to monitor the entire perimeter all the time, she said.In most cases, criminals targeted ablution blocks, stealing copper piping, taps and cistern flush mechanisms.Cooking equipment and food was stolen from feeding scheme kitchens.Tatenda Chiriseriprovinces@thenewage.co.za