The provincial department of education has warned that it would take decisive action against scores of teachers who continue to boycott classes at schools. Teachers have been protesting that they wanted the department to give in to their demands.The latest warning was issued following the go-slow of the teachers, which resulted in the pupils attending classes for about three hours a day. It has been almost three weeks since this has been happening because the teachers were abandoning their classes and taking part in the protests at the district offices of the employer.The teachers also demanded that the employer lift the moratorium preventing the advertising and filling of vacant posts because this decision was hindering the provision of quality education due to staff shortages, including teachers, administrators and general workers.In an interview with The New Age yesterday, education MEC Reginah Mhaule s spokesperson Jasper Zwane said they were concerned because the teachers were contravening the Labour Relations Act in terms of the contract they had with the department.Zwane said an agreement between the education department and the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) was that the teachers should participate in the strike only during lunchtime and after school hours. He said such behaviour by the teachers would not be tolerated by the department because it denied pupils the opportunity to receive lessons. The education department condemns the unpleasant behaviour of the teachers in the strongest terms. According to the agreement between Sadtu and the department, teachers need to picket during lunchtime or after hours, not turn pupils away and go to the designated picketing points. We want to caution them that this is affecting the education system and it is against the Labour Relations Act and their contracts with the department, Zwane said.He said the employer was working hard to resolve the demands of the employees. We are attending to the matter with organisations like Cosatu and other relevant stakeholders, Zwane said.Sadtu s secretary in the Nkangala district, January Mthimunye, said: Our affiliates will continue to abandon classes about 10am and participate in the picketing until we get an update on our demands. But we are calling on the employer to swiftly resolve the matter since we do not want to disturb the time of the pupils. But Sadtu secretary in the Ehlanzeni district Unwell Chauke said: We cannot compromise the future of the children. All our teachers need to be in class to do their job. They will only avail themselves at the picketing point after school hours. Those who abandon classes are not Sadtu members because we clearly indicated this to our members. FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za