There are no readily available suicide statistics for young people in the province but the reality is that many parents have been left devastated by the deaths of their children. Trends seem to show that when matric results are released some young people commit suicide.Relational issues, drugs, peer pressure and unplanned pregnancies have been cited as some of the factors driving this problem.One parent, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: I lost a daughter during the period when results were out and there is a lot of excitement and anxiety as some progress to tertiary level, while others fail. As to what really happened I m not sure but the sad reality is that my daughter took her life and she is gone. Education authorities said there were no statistics of suicide cases and would not know how prevalent the problem was.Nonetheless, leading life coach Nazley Delport said there was a need to rectify the rather high youth suicide rate in South Africa.She said there was no single factor that led to the high number of such cases but said there should be a holistic change in mind-set and support for young people. The rising rate in suicide among teenagers is due to various emotional and social issues that they deal with on a daily basis. Often the cry for help is not heard until it s too late, Delport said. There is very little awareness on the issue in our country and many teens have no one trustworthy to talk to without being criticised or not being taken seriously. She further said what teenagers sometimes needed was a listening ear of those they trusted so that they could confide. The one thing that every teenager wants from adults is to be taken seriously about their thoughts, feelings and opinions. We are unfortunately very quick to brush things off when our teens are trying to communicate with us, whether because we are too busy or we simply do not understand or appreciate the magnitude of the situation our teens are trying to communicate. It s often looked at as being dramatic. The life coach said that many a time, teenagers did not want to tell parents things they were silently suffering with, for fear of criticism, not truly being listened to, not being taken seriously or sometimes feeling less of a bother by not telling parents their issues.The urge to be seen to be grown up enough and thinking they can handle their affairs sometimes causes this.However, Delport warned that it is when the situation overwhelms them that they feel hopeless and see no solution to the problem.She said it became imperative that parents create a safe space for their children to talk to them about anything. The teenage stage in life is a roller coaster of hormones and emotions and many find it difficult to process these emotions as they all develop at a different pace. The transition from child to adolescent comes with its very own set of challenges, then there are still social issues such as eating disorders, anxiety, peer pressure, bullying, unrealistic media expectations, teen relationships, abuse, personality disorders, drugs, alcohol, sex and many other thing. Delport further said when the daily pressures of school and society became too much for an already overwhelmed teen, with no one to talk to about feelings they can t make sense of, they start acting out or shut down. Every teen is different and therefore the signs may differ in each individual, but there are signs that if seen should be investigated immediately, Delport said.Given the family challenges where sometimes parents do not stay with their children and working parents hardly have time, other society structures also need to step up to the plate.She said the community and the government needed to facilitate seminars on teenage social and emotional development at schools, so as to psychologically prepare them for what they could expect as they grew up. I say social and emotional issues because that is where it all starts, the pressures faced by our teenagers who have no knowledge on what to expect in this stage of their life and what they can do about it when they start experiencing these issues. We need to bring awareness and educate them on these issues, providing tools and skills on how to best to cope. Every day in every school in South Africa some kid is pressured, bullied or excluded in some way, shape or form and it has to be addressed on a personal level. We cannot leave this up to teachers but rather have dedicated professionals doing the rounds at schools to interact and educate on these very unfortunate yet solvable issues, Delport said.She emphasised the need for a very visible campaign on the issue of suicide at school and through the media in order to make a positive impact. She said they needed to give hope to a child who felt hopeless and that it could be done.elfast@thenewage.co.za