THE temptation to celebrate was there, but given the knowledge of the results of the past year, Allister Coetzee knew it was premature to celebrate the Springboks 37-14 win over France on Saturday.Maybe it is because the win at Loftus Versfeld Stadium was not enough to put the Boks among the top three in the world. Even with that though, one cannot look down or write off what was a confident, organised and encouraging performance from the Boks.The fans could finally see Jesse Kriel come to the party, scoring the first of the Boks tries after some hard work by promising debutant Andries Coetzee. Scrumhalf Ross Cronje scored on debut, with Jan Serfontein also dotting down. Courtnall Skosan, another debutant, came close to scoring but was denied by foul play, with the Boks eventually awarded a penalty try.It was a good start ahead of the second Test at the Kings Park Stadium on Saturday, but Coetzee does not want his team to get ahead of themselves. We certainly did take a step in the right direction today. This was the first of 13 Test matches for the season and at least we started with a positive performance and for that I am pretty pleased. We have closed the chapter on 2016 and this year we need to keep improving as a team, Coetzee said.Perhaps a lot of how the game went is in the numbers that Coetzee acknowledged when he said his team s performance was not perfect. Sure, they won, but the fact that France had more possession and territorial advantage means the Boks were only effective with ball in hand, causing serious damage with the 128 passes they managed to complete in 80 minutes. I have selected the best available team out there for this series, so it is pleasing that we won. We have the belief and ability in the team and the victory) was a baby step. Nothing is perfect, neither was our game. What we learned from the northern hemisphere teams is that you cannot stop working hard. The Boks left for Durban yesterday with a clean bill of health.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za&#8211; Mmasekepe Matsebane