South African philosopher and adventurer Laurens van der Post, was not only a close friend of Prince Charles, but his works were admired by the British royal, who on the second night of his honeymoon with Prince Diana, would order for his works to be read and analysed over dinner.These intimate details are part of the recordings that form part of the republication of Diana: Her True Story, a book written by Andrew Morton and first published in 1992.In 1991, few people knew the truth about Princess Diana s marriage that it was falling apart, that Charles had rekindled his relationship with Camilla Parker Bowles and because of this, the princess was devastated. She subsequently decided to make her side of the story public by recording her thoughts with Morton, which resulted in the book.Morton s sensational book became one of the best sellers at the time and now, 20 years after her death, it is being republished with transcripts of those tapes.The second extract of the tapes that were recorded by the princess also reveal that during the honeymoon following the couple s royal wedding, Prince Charles would order his wife to read through seven books authored by Van der Post, who was also Prince William s godfather.The author, who passed away in 1996, is known for being a prolific writer who authored essays and scholarly works. The second extract of the recordings begins just two days before her wedding on July 29, 1981 which was watched by a global TV audience of 750 million. I never tried to call the wedding off in the sense of really doing that. But the worst moment was when we got to Broadlands (the family seat of Charles late great-uncle Lord Mountbatten, where the royal couple spent the first part of their honeymoon), she said. I thought, you know, it was just grim. I just had tremendous hope in me, which was slashed by day two. On the second night of the honeymoon, Prince Charles brought out some Van der Post seven books which they had to analyse over lunch. We went to Broadlands. Second night, out come the Van der Post books he hadn t read. Seven of them they came on our honeymoon, she said. He read them and we had to analyse them over lunch every day. SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za