Absa spokesperson Songezo Zibi says the public protector report is based on inaccuracies,  and is irrational. arguing that an open court would be the best forum to clear up all issues in the matter. Zibi made the comments following Absa’s announcement that it would be taking the report on review to have it set aside. According to the bank, there are numerous misrepresentations in Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s report issued on Monday. Mkhwebane found that Absa had unduly benefited from an apartheid era bailouts and must repay R1.125bn. “The agreement between Absa and the SA Reserve Bank was for a loan at an interest rate of 1% not 15%,”Zibi said. “The 15% was to be used to clean up the bad debts of 91 000 clients who could not pay. There is no contract anywhere that says that Absa received a loan of 15% from the Reserve Bank.” He added that it is also inaccurate to say that Absa had derived benefit because…when Absa bought Bankorp the price Absa paid took account of the assistance that was still to come from the SA Reserve Bank over the next three years and that money was paid upfront. Zibi said that what needed to be determined was whether the shareholders of Bankorp benefited from the transaction. According to Zibi, the bank will launch a court application as soon as possible. He said they would join the court actions of any other affected parties which choose to review the report. The SA Reserve bank has come against Mkhwebane’s remedial action calling for its mandate of maintaining currency and price stability to be changed to “acting in the interests of ordinary citizens” Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago has defended the bank’s mandate to keep inflation low and protect the value of the rand, saying this approach was supportive of economic growth. However Corruption Watch has urged the bank to respect the public protector’s findings. David Lewis, executive director at Corruption Watch, said: “The Constitutional Court has decided that the remedial powers of the public protector are binding and Absa either needs to pay back the money that the public protector deems was unlawfully paid in the Bankorp bail-out or it must review this decision. Respect for the rule of law requires this. -Siphiwe Mchunu