A number of men have fallen victim to prostitutes colluding with armed syndicates to rob their clients at gunpoint in the notorious Sunnyside area of Pretoria.Although the police have arrested some of the syndicates, a number of men have lost money, cellphones, cars and other belongings while hoping for moments of pleasure.Some of the victims end up in hospitals or areas that are unknown to them after being drugged.Sunnyside police spokesperson Daniel Mavimbela said police were shocked by a case where a 54-year-old Sandton man lost R190000 in March, after he was lured into a trap through a blind date sex arrangement by a woman he met on a dating website. The two met at the Sunnypark shopping complex and proceeded to a flat in Jorrison Street for a sex encounter, Mavimbela said. Shortly after their arrival at the flat, the man started undressing. However, it turned into a nightmare when three armed men entered the bedroom and threatened the victim with a gun. One of the suspects accused him of sleeping with his wife. He said the suspects then demanded the victim s bank cards and PIN codes.In another incident last week, a 28-year-old man was robbed of a Toyota Yaris, which belonged to his girlfriend after picking up two women on the corner of Hamilton and Stanza Bopape street.He apparently parked at a McDonald s outlet nearby, where he consumed alcohol in the company of his unknown new friends at 4am. From that point the victim passed out and woke up in the afternoon at an unknown location in Mamelodi. The car and other belongings were missing. It also emerged that the victim had his own VW Polo Vivo stolen under similar circumstances back in June 2015, Mavimbela said.The victim believes that his drink was spiked on both occasions.In another incident, a man is due back in the Pretoria Magistrate s Court next month for kidnapping a 21-year-old man who had gone to Sunnyside to meet his online date.Clement Onyeica Oghonim, 27, was arrested in March after the victim s brother alerted the police about the kidnapping. The victim met the woman through a social media chat site and set a blind date at McDonald s in Sunnyside.Reports said she was accosted by three armed men. One of the suspects threatened him with a knife before they all boarded his car and forced him to drive to a flat in Sunnyside. They suspects allegedly demanded money and bank cards from him. Since the victim was not in possession of the items that the suspects were demanding, his brother was reportedly called so he could pay a ransom to secure both his safety and freedom. However, upon his arrival in Sunnyside, the brother alerted a police van that was on patrol in the area, he said. The woman has since disappeared, which is a common factor in almost all the cases where similar meetings result in kidnappings, robberies, theft of motor vehicles and hijackings. His two accomplices are still at large, he said.Mavimbela said that some of the cases went unreported as the victims were either married or cheating.KUTULLO MADISHAprovinces@thenewage.co.za