Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has once again missed an opportunity to explain to South Africans what he means by radical economic transformation. Instead, at a two-hour media conference last week, Gigaba said plans to overhaul the domestic economy would be unveiled this week or next. He again admitted that projected growth of 1.3% this year may not be realised, but that the country was committed to keep below the expenditure ceiling. State-owned entities (SOEs) needed to be rejuvenated and recapitalised properly. “SOEs need proper governance to be able to return to financial profitability. “As a matter of urgency, Eskom must appoint a new CEO. The entity still has R150bn available of their bail-out sum of R350bn,” he said. SAA needed to be recapitilised properly and an announcement would be made in the October mini budget. “The SABC must get out of politics and focus on commercial issues. It must fill all vacant senior management posts as soon as possible.” Gigaba said the Treasury was looking for ways to cut the government spending further and reallocate funds to help boost growth while maintaining its fiscal target. “The current hard economic times are affecting the Treasury’s plan to expand the economy. “Political instability, high unemployment and the ratings downgrades have dented business and consumer confidence in South Africa. Unemployment is at a 14-year high of 27.7%”, he said. Nicky Weimar, senior economist for Nedbank, said Gigaba’s actions did not go far enough and that the government lacked the political capital to introduce taxes as it had “a massive credibility issue” with South Africans. “The first problem is the lack of specifics in the plan but if they do go further in cutting spending and eliminating wastage that’s a positive,” Weimar said. Leon Louw, MD of the Free Market Foundation, agreed that Gigaba was confusing markets by not clarifying policy. “The problem is not just confusing talk, but muddled and contradictory anti-growth transformation policies. “If only they would examine the world’s experience, they’d see that high growth is radically transformative, and occurs only in free markets,” he said. According to Louw, the government should stop being so obsessed with white wealth that they neglect black poverty – making it worse. “Pulling down the rich doesn’t lift the poor. Transformation means rapidly raising living standards for the poor by bringing in new policies. “But the minister continues to contradict himself,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za