While the suspended DA s Helen Zille defends her untenable position, trying with all her might to extricate herself from the raging storm regarding her pro-colonialism tweets, there is another storm brewing in the world of sport.An African player of Ghanaian extraction was recently ruffled by a chorus of taunts that implied he should not forget that he was, as far as the Italians fans were concerned, a monkey. Sensitive to these taunts, and justly so, Sulley Muntari tried to draw the hurtful monkey chants to the referee s attention to no avail. The racist fans of Sardinia merrily continued.He showed no inclination to see this behaviour as hurtful. His behaviour was unacceptable. Was he not aware that we live in a world that is seeking justice for the many and not just the few. Muntari, a proud African, saw through the biased tendencies of the referee and openly remonstrated, pointing out to him that he must take action to end this painful racist diatribe. The uncaring and insensitive referee, driven by his inability to protect the player who was abused by chants of racism, failed to act appropriately to protect the dignity of a person from the racist football hooligans. Instead, the referee booked Muntari twice for dissent, an act that was not only irrational, but hurtful to the dignity of the player.Fifa has a clause in its constitution allowing referees, when they are convinced that racism rears its ugly head in a football match, to demand officials use a loud hailer to warn racists about the implications of their behaviour and actions. Lastly, suspended Helen Zille lacks the wisdom to see that her pro-colonialism tweets are hurtful. I suggest she goes to black townships to see what apartheid did to the lives of blacks.Reverend Martin Niemoller s words are relevant here: First they came for socialists and I did not speak out because I was not a socialist; they came for the trade unionists and I did not speak out because I was not a trade unionist; they came for the Jews and I did not speak out because I was not a Jew; then they came for me and there was no one left to speak for me. Jo-Mangaliso Mdhlela heads The New Age and ANN7 media academy JO-MANGALISO MDHLELA From the Watchtower