The first sitting of the inquest of anti-apartheid activist Ahmed Timol was an emotionally taxing affair for his comrade and friend, Dr Saleem Essop, yesterday.Essop and Capt Ben Nel were first to take the stand to give their testimonies in the hearings. Nel is the investigating officer in the new inquest. He is in the crimes against the state division in the Hawks and took on the case in 2015.Although the case happened more than 45 years ago, Essop s recollection of the torture at the hands of the apartheid police was still vivid. He was at times overcome by emotion as he stood in the witness stand detailing the various torture methods meted out to him while in detention, They were torturing me in the most severe way possible so that when they started questioning me, I would start blurting out the answers, he said.Essop said he believed the police were trying to break him so he would divulge all the information they thought he was withholding.He said during his detention at police headquarters at John Vorster Square (now Johannesburg Central police station) in 1971, he was subjected to asphyxiation using a plastic bag and suffered severe electrocution.Essop said he and Timol had shared interrogators who went back and forth between the two at intervals of between two and five hours.However, he said, he was glad he had finally been given the opportunity to tell his story in court. While it is not nice to relive a nightmarish experience and go through the details of what I experienced under torture, it is good that I can publicly relate what happened to me. We want closure. Just as the Timol family wants closure about his death, I want closure about the horrendous experiences I had at the hands of the security police, he said.This second inquest is being heard in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg, presided over by judge Willy Mothle.Timol died in October 1971 while in police custody. An inquest was held the following year and the magistrate ruled that he had committed suicide. Mothle said the court would welcome any information that would assist the proceedings. We as South Africans are about to enter a door that will rekindle painful memories. That door will be closed once the truth has been revealed, he said.Advocate Howard Varney, who represents the Timol family, said they were of the firm view the police had fabricated their version of what happened to cover up the truth about Timol s death.He said the magistrate was in a rush to exonerate the police and could not tell truth from fiction. It is not just the legal profession that must hang their collective heads in shame. South Africa has neglected the Timol family. It is a great pity that this inquest takes place when the police who witnessed everything have all died and cannot testify, Varney said.Imtiaz Carjee, Timol s nephew, said: I cannot describe how I am feeling. I think it is going to take time for me to absorb it all. LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za