South African-born and New York-based actress Tayla Schaffner, 21, is somewhat of an unknown entity in the country of her birth but the talented actress is no slouch with a record of 11 student films and countless awards under her belt.Over her two-year journey at the school, she was cast in 17 student-directed films, including the Off-Broadway Production of Antigone by Sophocles in which she played the lead at the Majorie S Theatre in Times Square.Taking everything she learnt, Tayla put all her time and energy into her latest offering, When It Rains, proving herself worthy of international standards and banishing the notion that South Africans are second best.When It Rains is a short film about a young woman, Lila, who discovers she has cancer for the second time. Apart from playing the lead, the film was also written and produced by Tayla as part of her final thesis project for her bachelor of fine arts degree.The film went on to win the award for best drama short at the Hollywood International Moving Pictures Film Festival, paving the way for a budding career.The talented rising star of Hollywood, whose passion for the arts saw her begin her journey at the tender age of 10, is now a fully fledged entertainment professional in Hollywood, rubbing shoulders with the likes of Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie in the streets of Los Angeles.She recently took time out to speak to The New Age, about her recent success in the world of acting.Having been born in Johannesburg, moving to America at the age of 10, What are your memories of South Africa?I had a very blessed and fun childhood growing up in SA. I was protected and sheltered and enjoyed my life. Growing up, I started to get bored with the city. I saw myself somewhere bigger and with more opportunities.When and how did your love of acting begin?Acting is telling a story, it is taking viewers on a journey, tricking their minds into alternate universes. As an audience member, I would be mesmerised by that journey so I wanted to do it and feel rewarded by taking people on a journey that I personally have taken. That s what acting does, which is why I chose it. I was about 10 years old when I found out this was possible as a career. I pointed to the TV screen and asked: Can people get paid for this?. My Dad nodded his head and that s when I knew there was no other thing.How has it been acclimatising to the demands of the US acting industry?The US industry is very hard and competitive and it has been hard to start out here and learn the ins and outs. However, I was trained excellently at my college and they prepared us for the fast business ahead of us. I am still learning to get used to it but nothing worthwhile in life comes easy.What made you leave SA for America and how was it in the US at first?I always wanted to come to America when I was little but I just didn t see it coming too quickly. I thought I would get my degree at home and then venture out but then I was given this opportunity to get here. I couldn t pass up such an opportunity just because I was young, so I jumped at it. At first, like any other child away from home, it was brutal. New friends, new climate, strange places. But it was all a learning experience and I am so grateful I took that leap.What was your first acting job in the US?I worked as background in a documentary called Wall Street English. It was a French documentary.Tell us about the impact of When It Rains?When It Rains had an extremely extensive impact. I believe every person wants to own their identity and be allowed to have a say in how their lives are altered or controlled. We live in a society that dictates our choices and beliefs and it s about time that we start taking our fate into our own hands and be your own person. I hope everyone felt this and decided to have the urge to be the master of their own fate.Which role has been the most career defining one for you?Since I was a child, I was a fan of The Lion King and a the quote from the play, remember who you are . I would run around the house pretending to be Rafiki and hold a stick and use my thumb like I was pawing Simba on his head. This resulted in my being cast as the first female Scar in Simmie Sangian s The Circle of Life: An Adaptation of The Lion King.What s is your current film project? What are you working on now?I have been cast in Grace Jasmine s new play called F**KED Up Fairytales. It has been selected to be in the Hollywood Fringe Festival. It s a spin-off of the new elections with Trump and how in life, all love trumps hate in society.How often do you come back home?I try come back every Christmas as it is a very important holiday for my family and I.What can people expect from you in the next year or so?I am in the process of applying to permanently live in the US and will be working on web series and working at the talent agency Avalon Artists. Maybe I will be back next year living in Cape Town and trying that market. Let s see.Tell us about how your world has changed since starting your career internationally?The door opened for everything that was about to follow. I didn t get these offers or opportunities back home. I felt that branching out broadened my horizons and paved the way for my career. Of course, pain has happened and it has been life-changing having to lose people dear to me and not being able to be home to mourn, but it has truly shaped me to be a stronger and harder person. I miss my family more than life itself but I know this is where I am meant to be right now.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za