Chilling details of Eskom employee Thembisile Yende s gruesome murder were revealed yesterday during the bail application of David Ngwenya, 44, in the Springs Magistrate s Court.Investigating officer in the case, LtCol Christo Lotz revealed how Yende was killed on May 17, allegedly by men who were afraid she was going to expose them.He said Ngwenya was with two other people when he murdered Yende.Lotz said according to the witness, Ngwenya was afraid that Yende would expose them as there was a copper theft syndicate that they were involved in. Ngwenya was pointed out by a witness during an ID parade, who said that he was the one involved in the copper syndicate and he was afraid that he would get arrested should it come out. Three people said Ngwenya met with two people before the murder to tell them that Yende was a whistle blower so she had to be killed, Lotz said. Yende was then injected before she was killed. According to the witness she tried to fight back but they hit her with an object on the head. The postmotem did show that she sustained head wounds, he said.He said the suspect and his accomplice staged Yende s death as suicide. The witness said they indeed made it look like she had committed suicide and the CCTV camera was switched off from May 11. She was left in the bush for three days after she was beaten, then she was picked up and dropped at her work place inside the store room, He said that two other suspects were still to be arrested.David Ngwenya s statement was read out in court, where he was quoted saying he is an employee at Eskom.In his affidavit Ngwenya was quoted saying: I deny that I have committed the offence and I should be released on bail as I have no previous convictions against me. He said he was married and had three minor kids, whom he needed to look after. I have assets to the value of R1.5m and my family resides in Springs. I have no other properties. I will not be a danger to society, a statement read.Magistrate Cornell Pretorious postponed the matter until today for cross examination of the witness.Ngwenya is accused of killing the 30-year-old Thembisile Yende whose lifeless body was found laying in a store room 10 days after she went missing.He was arrested on June 15 in Carletonville. Last week a man who could have been a key witness in the case died of natural causes.Police said that his car was used by Ngwenya to commit the crime.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAdikeledir@thenewage.co.za