Atleast 13 Correctional Services officials could face suspension in the wake of a stripper party held at the Johannesburg Correctional Centre last week.The raunchy party, where prisoners are seen fondling skimpily dressed women, would have remained a behind prison walls secret, if it was not for leaked pictures on social media. Acting Correctional Services commissioner James Smalberger confirmed the authenticity of the pictures and said the event was part of Youth Month commemorations. The pictures were taken at an event at Johannesburg Medium B Correctional Centre on June 21. It involved external stakeholders, where part of the programme included entertainment, Smalberger said.He said preliminary findings indicated that 13 officials will possibly be served with letters of suspension. He said the form of entertainment was not approved as it was not in line with departmental policy. These are clear in terms of appropriate clothing and behaviour when inside a correctional environment, he said. The management of the event should have never allowed and immediately halted this type of explicit entertainment, as pronounced by our policies, Smallberger said.He said there had been a clear breach of security at the prison and the department would investigate the matter. The investigation is led by a senior official at the level of director, who is not from the Johannesburg Correctional Centre. Feedback on the matter has been scheduled for Friday where it will be indicated when the investigation will be completed.Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha directed Smallberger together with other senior managers to report to the correctional centre yesterday morning to be briefed on the outcomes of the preliminary investigation. We arrived at this centre at 7am today, together with the chief of staff in the office of the minister, where we received a briefing from the senior management team led by the acting regional commissioner of Gauteng as well as the acting area commissioner, he said. On behalf of DCS, we want to apologize to the citizens of South Africa for this incident which, indeed, is very disturbing, Masutha said. We will make sure that those found guilty face the consequences of their actions and also that sufficient measures are in place to ensure that such incidents are not repeated, the minister said.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za