THE story of Moliere s Tartuffe illustrates quite clearly how hypocrisy, greed and ambition are knitted into certain individual s DNA and if one is oblivious of this cunningness, you will fall prey to his machinations. Tartuffe is an inveterate swindler wearing a cloak of false piety that is obvious to others but utterly convincing to the authoritative Orgon who has befriended him.Orgon subconsciously knows but doesn t want to know. However, this is not a modern play but a classic from the 17th Century and indeed the author is considered the most famous of the French playwrights. In the hands of a less experienced director, Moliere s work could well have become a farce but under the experienced direction of Sylvaine Strike it becomes a controlled, visual masterpiece. Strike studied at the Jacques Lecoq School of Mime and Movement in Paris and combined with her many years of directing experience infuses the characters of her strong, hand-picked cast with a delicious magic, creating a pot-pourri of movement and vocals that entrance from beginning to end.The actors stylised mannerisms depict life perfectly, where, so often we say one thing, yet our body language will give us away as meaning quite another. Alliance Francaise commissioned the work for a six-month run and the well-known Neil McCarthy as Orgon, has well-deservedly already been hailed and lauded for his excellent portrayal in Soweto at the Baxter Theatre in Cape Town and in Durban before the present Johannesburg run. Physical theatre is obviously a challenge for many actors but the elasticity and muscularity of Craig Morris makes him perfect as the cunning Tartuffe, who beguiles and bewitches Orgon as he literally becomes the monkey on his back.I found his body movements and use of the stage fascinating and would gladly see the production again just to watch him and the way every cast member interacted in the complex jigsaw. The work is so demanding that all the actors must gather two hours before each performance to ensure the highly pressured, defined character of movement in the body and the voice is exactly where it should be on stage and it pays off handsomely with its strong cohesion. I was blown away. The final scene is chilling.Do not miss Tartuffe, a metaphor for corruption. Performances are daily, except Mondays. Contact Webticket or visit www.joburgtheatre.com for more informatiomn.JUDY BARNES 