A 30-year-old shepherd briefly appeared at the Butterworth Magistrate&#8217;s court today to apply for bail regarding the missing 19-year-old girl&#8217;s head and arms that were found at a village next to a river in Butterworth yesterday. The court matter will has been postponed to June 27 and he will remain in custody.Police spokesperson Jackson Manatha said that the body of the girl was found in a shallow grave, also in Butterworth.He said the gruesome discovery of head and arms was made after several weeks of desperate search for Nandipha Mtuzula who had been missing from her Ngobozi Village home since last week. week. &#8220;Her body was discovered in a shallow grave along the river bank in a forest not far from of Cunningham SSS Girls School,&#8221; Manatha said. &#8220;The suspect was arrested on June 13 at R1 Location, Toleni Village, Butterworth, where he is employed as a shepherd,&#8221; Manatha said. In a interview with a local Daily Dispatch, the deceased father, Thamsanqa Mtuzula, said the family was distraught. The police came here and they told us that they were still looking for some of her missing limbs ,&#8221; Mtuzula said. Her mother is not taking it well at all. She is just crying and I am trying to be strong, the father said. It is reported that this horrendous discovery comes just under four years after the convicted serial killer Bulelani Mabhayi was sentenced to life imprisonment. Eastern Cape provincial commissioner Lt-Gen Liziwe Ntshinga said the safety of women and children should be a top priority in the Eastern Cape, and that the police should be on the alert. &#8220; This is another shocking and senseless case where an innocent child was murdered. It must be emphasised that the safety of women and children is a top priority for the police in the Eastern Cape. &#8220;The continual investigation of such cases is in line with our back-to-basics policing approach which requires efficient and responsive investigation of crime utilising all resources at our disposal to ensure that offenders are brought to book to face the consequences of their ruthless deeds , Ntshinga said. Nandipha was a matric student at the Cunningham Senior Secondary School in Toleni. 