Purported iPhone 8 shots continue to emerge as rumours suggest that the smartphone could be launched at Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2017) which started yesterday. The device is said to be Apple s most anticipated phone since the original iPhone in 2007.Rumours suggest a full-on dark mode for the display, a big focus on Apple s digital software assistant Siri, updates to the messaging services iMessage and FaceTime and updates to the digital payment system Apple Pay. This comes as Apple starts the big week of the iPhone s 10th anniversary. The company s Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2017) kicked off yesterday with new MacBooks and iPads expected as well as the first glimpse of iOS 11.There s been a lot of speculation doing the rounds in connection with Apple s next iPhone. While rumours such as a full-face screen and the removal of the home button seem almost certain to be accurate at this point, there is still some confusion over the Touch ID sensor. According to a recent article from Forbes, the device will maintain the same aluminium unibody, ruling out any major redesign and wireless charging. According to Forbes, three Foxconn employees have confirmed the following features: It looks most like the middle version in both these leaked images.There is a new dual rear camera with vertical alignment. The front bezel will be thinner on the Y-axis. Test units have Touch ID under the glass but performance and yield rates were not good . No version is planned with a rear fingerprint scanner. AuthenTech s long-standing Touch ID capacitive touch module has been replaced. There will be facial detection and a retina scanner. And plural front facing camera modules . RAM remains at 3GB like the iPhone 7 Plus. The aluminium unibody is replaced by composite glass .There s wireless charging via a rear panel. It will again be water-resistant (no word if the rating has increased). There is no USB-C, Apple is sticking with Lightning. Production is indeed delayed.-INDIE BOYCE|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za