The ANC has pledged to use its national policy conference to reaffirm its non-racial character while also remaining true to its historic mission to bring fundamental socio-economic transformation to the benefit of blacks in general and Africans in particular.This undertaking was given yesterday on the 62nd commemoration of the writing of the Freedom Charter in Kliptown.In a statement the ANC said it would use its upcoming national policy conference to accelerate the aspirations of the Freedom Charter. We will reaffirm the ANC s nonracial character while remaining true to our historic mission to effect fundamental socio-economic transformation to the benefit of blacks in general and Africans in particular, the ANC said.Reflecting on the freedom struggle, the ANC said that it remained in struggle against racial domination and not a struggle against a particular race. The ANC remains committed to resolving the national grievance not by fighting white people, but fighting the system of oppression and its legacy. The ANC called on South Africans across all divides to unite behind the aspirations of the Freedom Charter. Pushing back the frontiers of poverty, dealing decisively with unemployment and eliminating inequality requires resolute action from all social partners. Of necessity, as a country we must build on that which unites rather than belabour that which divides. It was an accepted fact, said the ANC, that the democratic government had inherited an economy dominated by monopoly capital, with a few whiteowned conglomerates owning large swathes of critical sectors.The principal enemy of the National Democratic Revolution was monopoly capital, which was made up of local and foreign corporations that controlled large chunks of the economy. To drive transformation of our economy, to the benefit of all our people, we must be unyielding in our project to dismantle monopolies. We must come up with bold proposals to usher in a skills revolution among the youth. Confronted by the reality of the advent of the fourth industrial revolution, we must ensure that we prepare our youth and our country for a new and different future in an ever-evolving world, the ANC said.The country must be ruthless in the quest to turn South Africa into a construction site thus ensuring we overcome the legacy and injustice created by colonialism and apartheid by creating monuments of manufacturing excellence in our township and rural areas .The ANC called on all South Africans to have unity of strategic perspective on the nature and character of the society we build.&#8220;We must promote a common loyalty and pride in the country to create a universal sense of freedom and security within its borders. We, black and white, must hold hands to build a thriving and prosperous society characterised by total fulfilment of the aspirations of the Freedom Charter. dennisc@thenewage.co.za