Hardly a week after South Africa was downgraded to junk status and a day after it plunged into recession, Sibanye Gold yesterday announced that it had received a Ba2 rating from Moody’s Investors Service with a stable outlook and a B+ rating with a positive outlook from Standard and Poor’s (S&P) Global Ratings. The mining giants said in assigning the Ba2 (stable) corporate family rating to Sibanye, Moody’s noted that it reflected the company’s solid business profile underpinned by diversified metal production revenues, as well as its track record of setting and sticking to conservative financial policies. The ratings outlook assumes Sibanye will “de-leverage as planned, following the addition of the Stillwater acquisition debt and the successful integration of the new mining assets”. S&P noted that the assigned B+ (positive) rating reflected its view that Sibanye will “generate positive discretionary cash flow after the Stillwater acquisition that should enable it to gradually reduce leverage in line with its stated financial policy”. Neal Froneman, CEO of Sibanye, said: “The affirmative credit ratings endorse our maturing business model and the value that is being created by our recent acquisitions. “Refinancing the Stillwater acquisition bridge facility is a key area of ours, hence these ratings are a positive step in establishing an appropriate long-term capital structure for the group.” The company announced it had mandated Citi, HSBC, Barclays as global coordinators and book-runners, as well as Credit Suisse and Standard Bank as book-runners of a proposed $1bn (R12.8bn) bond offering, the rating of which is expected to be in line with the newly obtained corporate ratings. The proceeds of the issuance will be used to refinance part of the bridge loan facility obtained by Sibanye to finance the acquisition of Stillwater. The company said the forward looking statements set out in its announcement involve a number of known and unknown risks and other factors. Many of these are difficult to predict and generally beyond control, that could cause Sibanye’s actual results and outcomes to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date of this announcement. Sibanye undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this announcement or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, save as required by applicable law. The announcement is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of offers to purchase or subscribe for, securities in the US or any other jurisdiction, or investment advice in any jurisdiction relating to the securities discussed therein. The company said the announcement is not an “offer to the public’’ as defined in Section 95(1)(h) of the Companies Act, 2008, as amended nor does it call attention to or advertise an offer to the public. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za