The ANC s national policy conference this week will mark a watershed moment for the country s economic trajectory, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said yesterday.Keeping his presidential ambitions alive, Ramaphosa delivered the keynote address to delegates attending the National Health and Allied Workers Union 11th national congress in Boksburg.He said the governing party s policy indaba should serve as a platform that would assist the country in countering the economic headwinds facing it. It is at this conference where the ANC together with its alliance partners will examine in detail the progress we have made in implementing the policies that we crafted in Mangaung for radical change. It is at this (forthcoming) conference that we must establish what has worked and what has not worked. It must become a place where policies are refined and changed, he said.Ramaphosa s comments come as the ANC is adding the final touches to its much-anticipated national policy conference on Friday. The conference also comes against the background of a group of disgruntled ANC stalwarts and veterans having dismissed the ANC s policy indaba as a futile exercise.Ramaphosa called for the crafting of sound economic polices that would augur well for inclusive economic growth and sustainable development. Most importantly, this policy conference must establish a platform for rapid growth and rapid transformation and fundamental economic transformation. This is therefore an opportunity to place our economy on a new trajectory that we must all craft. This is a critical moment of discussion that we should have now as a country, because we find ourselves in difficult economic circumstances. Ramaphosa also lamented the country s recent sovereign credit ratings downgrade to junk status. He said the impact of it painted a bleak picture of SA s prospects for economic recovery. Having recently entered a recession, the economy is still at a distance from achieving the rates of growth that we need to create the jobs our country needs on a significant scale. The recent ratings downgrade not only undermines investor confidence but they make it difficult and more expensive to raise finance for transformation and development in our country. Ramaphosa, making reference to the ANC s December elective conference, said the governing party needed to act swiftly in plucking rotten apple leaders out of its rank and file. South Africans do not want and do not deserve a leadership that will be unaccountable and act with impunity.They want leaders who will conduct themselves with honesty and integrity and with selflessness. They want a leadership who is able to innovate, to manage change and to drive essential programmes of development. Ramaphosa also said the ANC and its alliance partners should not lose sight of the 2019 general election as the opposition benches were hot on their heels for the electoral mandate to govern the country. We need to intensify our campaign for 2019. The 2019 election campaign starts now. The other opposition parties have already started because they are dreaming of occupying the Union Buildings, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za