THE Volkswagen Group of South Africa (VW) on Thursday launched the Volkswagen B-BBEE Initiative Trust, marking a significant day for black-owned suppliers in the automotive sector.Although the trust was established last year, it was launched publicly last week to showcase the trust and explain its objectives to suppliers, potential partners and the public. Delivering the keynote address, economic development MEC Sakhumzi Somyo thanked the trust for the initiative and the support shown to blackowned suppliers. This initiative comes at a crucial time in our democratic order, when there is a clarion call throughout the government and society to change the gears of economic transformation and for bold decisions to be taken to effect radical change in the economic landscape of the country. One way of doing this is by taking deliberate action to introduce black industrialists into the manufacturing sector targeting, among others, the manufacturing of automotive components, Somyo said. The aim of the trust is to increase the number of quality black-owned suppliers in the automotive sector value chain.VW chairperson and MD Thomas Schaefer said: The Volkswagen B-BBEE Initiative Trust is one of the initiatives Volkswagen introduced to implement our strategy of deepening localisation and increasing our competitiveness and business sustainability.This will also contribute to the economic growth of the region. The VW trust will primarily provide financial assistance and, where required, non-financial assistance such as business development growth and accessing markets through supplier development relationships.This advice and support will be given to qualifying black-owned suppliers and white suppliers who are interested in becoming black-owned. Although the trust carries VW s name, it is managed independently by a board of trustees.The trustees are Siphamandla Ndawonde, entrepreneur and part of the government s Black Industrialist Programme, Frans Nortje, a strategist and researcher who has recently concluded research on the implementation of culture-sensitive improvement and transformation models in South Africa, and Nonkqubela Maliza, director of corporate and government affairs at VW.VW has already made a contribution to the trust. The first investment by the trust of R22m was made to local supplier Acoustex to help it grow and developits business. The Volkswagen B-BBEE Initiative Trust aims to support at least three other suppliers this year. VW continues to view procurement from black-owned suppliers as a priority from both a moral and legislative compliance perspective. The initial investment of R86m shows that we, as a company, are committed to supporting and empowering black-owned suppliers in the automotive industry through this independent trust and other company-based initiatives. We encourage corporates throughout all industry sectors to get involved, Schaefer said. Somyo said various initiatives to transform the industry were under way. There are plans to develop an industrial park to house automotive component suppliers so they can be in close proximity to all the original equipment manufacturers in the region and for exports into the international markets, Somyo said.&nbsp;