THE government is not leaving any stone unturned to secure the release of Stephen McGown, the South African who was taken hostage in Mali in 2011.However, disclosing any details of actions taken at this stage would not serve a proper purpose, it said. The House should know that the government has not left any stone unturned to secure the release of Mr McGown and will continue to assign resources and sincere efforts to ensure his return to South Africa, Foreign Affairs Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane said.She gave this assurance in reply to a written Parliamentary question from DA member of Parliament Alf Lees. He had asked her whether the government had taken any further action to secure the release of McGown.Lees also asked for relevant details of the further action the government is taking in order to secure his release. He also wanted to determine if NkoanaMashabane had any knowledge of where McGown was being held and by whom. She responded: Yes.The government is involved in a continuum of actions securing the release of Mr Stephen McGown, involving support from any of the government departments when needed. Actions were taken since March last year.These included but were not limited to, considering every viable option to ensure his release. The government continued to liaise with other governments and agencies who may contribute to effect the release of Mr McGown. McGown s exact location was not known because it was a known trend of the captors to move their captives at regular intervals, ensuring their safety and security.Different groups, Nkoana-Mashabane said, were publicly known to capture tourists in Mali and, although more information about the group may be sourced, providing more information on the group was not in the interest of the matter being dealt with. The government is working with many other governments and agencies in an effort to effect the release of Mr Stephen McGown. Providing details on each of these organisations at this stage may compromise his safety. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN