I remember a member of the church I served in Leeds telling me how Johanneson, recruited from a Katlehong-based amateur side, Hume Zebras, dazzled opposition with remarkable quickness that was a marvel to watch .They even ventured to suggest that he was even better than the revered English footballing legend, George Best. To have English football die hards describe our own Johanneson as being a better player than Best was remarkable. We called him Black Flash because of his quickness and dexterity with which he played. George Best was not as good as he was, my church warden in Leeds would say.But also, Black Flash or Hurry Hurry , as he was fondly called, produced a thrilling and scintillating blend of football at a time when racism in England was rife and overt.Having had to endure monkey and banana chants hurled at him and courageously shrugging off discriminatory treatment dished out at him in the field of play, is testimony to the courage Best alluded to.Ironically, even racist fans could not hide their appreciation of his football skills. Despite all the racist slurs he had to endure, he continued to be a shining star for Leeds United.Born in 1942, he left South Africa in 1961 to escape the apartheid-designed discrimination with no idea that in England he would, as a black man, encounter some of the same vile treatment.And this was what Best said of him: Albert was quite a brave man to actually go on pitch in the first place, wasn t he? He had a lot of skill. A nice man as well. who had been denigrated by some of his colleagues at Leeds United as a black bastard. Johanneson died a broken man in England at the age of 55 in 1995.Three decades later, South Africa produced another great star, Benni McCarthy. He remains our star, having served with honour his country as Bafana Bafana striker.Oversea he campaigned for Blackburn Rovers, West Ham United, Porto, Celta, among others.Back home, McCarthy played for Ajax, Seven Stars and Orlando Pirates, giving of his best.Like Johanneson, he has earned his stripes as a great player and many are glad that he has been appointed to become head coach of Cape Town City.At 39, McCarthy may one day become head coach of the national team. We wait with anticipation for that day. He has the knowledge and confidence required to achieve greatness.With the spectre of Johanneson hovering over us, we trust Benni will take this country to dizzy footballing heights.Jo-Mangaliso Mdhlela heads The New Age and ANN7 media academy JO-MANGALISO MDHLELA&nbsp;From the Watchtower