MMABATHO Ranake, a 30-year-old woman from Naledi in Soweto, who has been living with HIV for 13 years said she would continue to celebrate her life with enthusiasm.In 2005 when Ranake was just 17 years old, she was diagnosed with TB and discovered she was HIV positive. Although it was a shock at first she never allowed her status to define her. I was still in high school. I had always been chubby growing up and looked healthy.From what I knew HIV positive people were supposed to be skinny so it was hard to accept my status, she said. Ranake said her CD4 count was above 500 when she was diagnosed and she lived without medication for 12 years. I only started taking anti-retrovirals a year ago when my CD4 count started dropping, she said. Through her journey living with the disease, Ranake said she has had her family s support. My family found out about my status the day I was diagnosed and have shown me remarkable support ever since.They have never made me feel any different. Their support has strengthened me through the years, she said. Ranake lost an older sister in 2010 as a result of the disease. She believes her sister s death gave her courage to talk about her status and fight the stigma against HIV-Aids. My sister only disclosed her status a few months before we laid her to rest.I decided then to share my status with the world. I did not want to be like my sister and die in silence. At times I wonder, had she spoken to someone about her condition maybe she would not have died. Often people are vulnerable and thereby fall victim to contracting diseases such as STIs and HIV because they diagnose a person by just looking at them, Ranake said.She said people s assumptions were that if you were pretty, full-figured or middle class, then you could not be infected. I wanted to break those boundaries and stereotypes and let people know that HIV has no size, colour or class preference. It can affect anyone. She encourages people to know their status and be honest about it to their partners. She also urged young girls to take care of themselves. Ranake said although the stigma about HIV-infected people was still prevalent, those affected by HIV should not embrace shame . People will only treat you how you want them to treat you. If its sympathy that you want, they will give it to you. I always allow people to feel how they want to feel about me but I always tell them I am not HIV, I am just a person living with HIV, she said.The HIV Good stories SA founder, Thula Mkhize, said: People should know the facts about living with the disease. I have been living with HIV for eight years and I am confident I will live for a very long time. He said a lot of people lived in fear because of unfounded facts about the disease. Many HIV stories and campaigns had instilled fear in people as their pictures and messages communicated death to people, he said. People should research the disease, meet those who have been living with the disease for a long time and learn ways to manage it. Although HIV can be a killer disease, it can be managed and prevented if people take care of themselves, he said. He said his organisation aimed to empower the world to share the good stories about HIV positive people.