Tourism and culture plays a significant role in the North West province.North West MEC for culture, arts and traditional affairs Ontlametse Mochware said the department was anchored around the preservation, protection and development of arts, culture and heritage to rebrand, reposition and renew the province of Bokone Bophirima. Culture is one of the economic contributors in the province. In advancing radical socio-economic transformation, the department successfully hosted three flagship projects, namely, Matlhaku, Taung Cultural Calabash and Mahika-Mahikeng Cultural Festival, Mochware said.She said the department had engaged the Tourism Board to profile, promote and market the heritage sites as tourism sites. R1,2m has been set aside for the activities of the Provincial Heritage Resource Agency during the 2017-18 financial year, she said.However, Mochware said unemployment and lack of skills remained a challenge as the province sought to achieve a prosperous society.Tourism MEC Desbo Mahono said the tourism industry was recognised worldwide for the immense role it could play in addressing inequality, poverty and unemployment. Tourism is a crucial industry that could employ millions of Filipinos, skilled and unskilled alike, across those 7107 islands of the Philippines. From the projection of 3.3 million tourist arrivals in 2010, our aim is to eventually attract 6 million tourists. In the process, we expect to create 3 million jobs in the next six years, Mahono said.The department said through the provincial language committee, the department promotes and safeguards official languages prominent in the province. During the 2016-17 financial year the PLC embarked on various programmes such as International Mother Tongue Day and the Silent March to promote sign language and the Sol Plaatjie memorial lecture. According to South African history, online cultural heritage sites have to show a masterpiece of human creativity or an important exchange of human values over a long period of time. This exchange must be seen in architecture or technology, the planning of the town or city and the design of the landscape. It has to show evidence of a tradition or civilisation that has disappeared or is still alive. It can also be a very good example of a type of building, group of buildings, use of technology or reflect important stages in human history, South African history online said.It said a place where humans settled and used the land in a way that represented their culture could also be a cultural heritage site, especially if the area is affected by change that cannot be reversed. The authenticity and the way the site is protected and managed are also important factors .The agency is responsible for the preservation and development of heritage resources.The province has two world heritage sites, three national heritage sites, 36 provincial heritage sites and one local heritage site, namely Batlhaping Primary School in Taung.The tourism MEC said the department would in due course share with the portfolio committee on the industry performance in the villages small towns and dorpies as well as share their marketing impact in establishments. We have the potential to attract more than 5 million tourists a year. We have the products that can see us achieve this, the people and the setting; ,the backup of government and the will to make this come true, she said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za