Alexkor responded to an ANN7 investigation on cofferdam mining on the Namaqualand coast. This is an edited transcription from a phone interview CEO Mervyn Carstens.Just take us through the progress of mining on the coast near the Orange River?Alexcor has been mining the West Coast for the last 20 years and more since the early 1980&#8217;s in the shallow water concessions through boats that have been working in the shallow waters and extracting gravel in the sea beds in a process where divers extract gravel from the sea beds. This has been practised well over the past 20 years and it&#8217;s been the mainstream income for the company. Was your environmental impact study approved by the Dept of Mineral Resources?The current mining licence was re-approved environmental management plan that provides for this kind of mining including the building of coffer dams. We are now in the process of revising the actual normal practice of the environmental management plan and that would be included again as the essential part of our mining method in the coastal area. It&#8217;s been part of the plan and it&#8217;s been included as such. Did the process of building cofferdams start ahead of the Environmental Impact Assessment being accepted?Yes the EIA was it&#8217;s been approved before the erection of the cofferdams. The community members and the businessmen like diamond divers and fishermen are against this form of mining. Has your company engaged with them? Are you aware of their concerns?We have not been formally approached. We&#8217;ve heard from various sources that there&#8217;s some unhappiness. But remember that the main income stream for this area has always been mining and if you have look at current fishing in this area of Port Nolloth, it is very small compared to the economic influence of mines, so I have not been formally approached by any grouping or the fishermen themselves about their unhappiness. What was the budget that you put aside in terms of rehabilitation of the area that you are mining at?In terms of your EMP, you do need the provision for rehabilitation. The provision is normally determined by independent people from outside. That&#8217;s looking at the disturbances and then determine the quantum for the terms of the DMR, you need to provide for the rehabilitation of those areas. You will find that in certain areas along the coast where we&#8217;ve done these cofferdams a year ago nature itself is taking care of the environmental aspects with regards to rehabilitation. You find that the cofferdams that were built a year ago if I have to show you where it was you won&#8217;t recognise that there was a cofferdam there before because the sea help rehabilitates the area once you collapse the wall. The sea is taking care of the rehabilitation. Apart from that we do have the financial guarantee to do whatever we need to do in terms of the rehabilitation as determined by the independent consultants Do you feel the right process was followed before you started the mining project?In terms of our current rights, we did not have to do an EIA because those rights have been granted to us in terms of the existing environmental management plan. For the revision of the EMP, which we are currently busy with, it will also be included in the plan. There&#8217;s a legal threat action because you started this form of mining ahead your EIA approved, are you aware of it?I&#8217;m not aware of a threat action or any legal action and once again nobody has formally engaged us on that matter. So I&#8217;m not aware of any legal action against any company including ours. So the community has not involved you in their concerns?No, they have not involved us. They have not spoken to us and this is really the first time that we&#8217;ve been formally approached with these kinds of concerns. If they do approach you, would there be any kind of solution that you would come up with for the community?We are willing to engage, certainly, it&#8217;s a question of coexistence for all of us considering the needs of the fishermen and the socio-economic impact of mining the marine concessions. You know one needs to weigh up the pros and cons. The mine itself is one of the biggest employers in the area, providing employment for over a thousand people. You know the mining industry in that area is declining. The conventional mining, especially in the Richtersveld area, in the greater Namaqualand area. We are one of the biggest provision of employment in that area so if we have to stop mining the way we&#8217;re mining it&#8217;s going to have a huge influence in terms of unemployment in the area, so one has to weigh up all of the factors and certainly we will have to sit around the table and try to resolve the concerns coming from the community.