Without a deeper and more structured transformation of the SA economy towards black ownership the project of a non-racial democratic South Africa is threatened, for both black and white.Lyndon B Johnson, the 36th president of the United States of America, is best remembered for designing the Great Society legislation which paved the way for the US society of today. It declared a war on poverty, helping millions of Americans to rise above the poverty line.It upheld civil rights, medicare and aid to education. The civil rights bill he signed into law banned discrimination in public facilities, the workplace and housing. His Voting Rights Act effectively prohibited certain southern states from using discriminatory state regulations to ban African Americans from voting.In his now famous address to the predominantly black Howard University in June 1965, this is what Johnson had to say about the need for economic redress for the previously disadvantaged. You do not take a person who, for years, has been hobbled by chains and liberate him, bring him to the starting line of the race and say you are now free to compete with all the others and still justly believe that you have been completely fair. To achieve fairness, therefore, one must supposedly allow members of certain groups a chance to recover from the effects of previous disadvantages by giving them special help such, either extra training to qualify for positions which they can then achieve on merit, or else deliberate selection over better-qualified candidates, with special assistance after appointment. Indeed, Johnson was correct.Without interventions that specifically target those that have been economically marginalised for centuries, equitable redress is hard to attain.When South Africa attained freedom through the miracle of 1994, it was natural that political and social freedom would take precedence in the reconstruction and development project.The vestiges of apartheid had to be dismantled one by one and this was no mean feat.Education, health, housing, social services and other areas of everyday South African life had to desegregated and true integrative measures be put in place to create a truly non-racial society. But perhaps in hindsight, this process of political and social change was supposed to have run concurrently with a process of radically transforming the economy to change its racialised structure and bring the marginalised into its mainstream.This is what the ANC recognised five years ago in its national policy conference and elective conference resolutions, declaring the period onwards as the second phase of the transition which would focus on changing the structure of the economy to make it more inclusive.This time around, the ANC has gone further and is advocating for radical economic transformation as the central pillar of its economic policy. A clear objective of radical economic transformation must be to reduce racial, gender and class inequalities in South Africa through ensuring more equity with regards to incomes, ownership of assets and access to economic opportunities. An effective democratic developmental state and efficiently run public services and public companies are necessary instruments for widening the reach of radical economic transformation enabling the process to touch the lives of ordinary people. Furthermore, proposals for new transformation programmes must be cognizant of the reality that resources are always finite and are particularly scarce when the rate of economic growth is slow. In order to fund new programmes or expand existing programmes, therefore, it will be necessary to recommend the de-prioritisation or discontinuation of other programmes, which are not having the desired policy impact, observes the ANC in its discussion document on economic transformation.To chart a way towards radical economic transformation, the ANC has identified 12 key pillars that must be in place if the structure of the economy is to be completely overhauled. Reducing unemployment and youth unemployment. Returning land to our people and supporting land reform. Increasing black ownership and control in the economy. Activating small businesses and cooperatives. Raising the level of investment. Strengthening social justice and conditions for the poor and working class. Improving the employment impact of infrastructure projects. Reducing inequality and poverty. Dismantling monopoly practices and structures. Asserting South Africa s interests in the global economy. More integration in the African economy. Stimulating inclusive growth.Perhaps the first three pillars of this strategy are the most important, for if implemented in a systematic manner, they will have a domino effect on other pillars and on the entire project of radical transformation of the economy.Unemployment, but specifically youth unemployment, is staggeringly high in this country.In its Quarterly Labour Force survey which measures employment figures Statistics South Africa found that while overall unemployment declined to 26.5% in the last quarter of 2016, youth unemployment remains stubbornly high at 37.8%.Of this group, those with matric or less made up the largest share of youth unemployment.If this problem of youth unemployment is not tackled, it will remain a ticking time bomb that can go off at any moment.There has been a lot of debate on the issue of returning land to our people and supporting land reform. South Africa had set itself a target of transferring at least 30% of arable land to those who were denied land under apartheid.This turned out to be an ambitious target which has since been revised several times.However, some opportunistic Johnny-comelately pseudo radicals have appropriated the concept of radical land reform for themselves.This will be and remains an ANC programme contained in the party s original manifesto The Freedom Charter.But a different approach is required if the land reform process is to be accelerated further. The state has to identify beneficiaries that are suited for the rigours of farming and support them not only with equipment and farming methods, but access to markets.Increasing black ownership and control of the economy is also a key pillar in this quest for radical economic transformation.There is an opportunity to create new black industrialists in new sectors such as energy and the oceans economy. State owned development financiers such as the Industrial Development Corporation and the National Empowerment Fund must play a central role.The structure of the South African economy must be changed if the country is to achieve inclusive growth where all sectors of society benefit equally, otherwise millions of people will remain outside of the formal economy begging to be let in. We dare not fail them.Muhammad Khalid Sayed, ANC Youth League Western Cape provincial chairperson