Gauteng departments are working together to combat the high rate of youth unemployment in the province.Social development spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said all departments had taken an initiative to try to fight the rate of unemployment. We are all working together. There is a programme of provincial government called Tshepo One Million, which was precisely created due to the rate of youth unemployment in the province, Xaba said.In 2014, the provincial government launched the Tshepo initiative with the intention to empower about 500000 young people through skills training, job placement and entrepreneurship development.However, due to the success of the programme so far and the enthusiastic support from the private sector, the target has now been increased to 1 million. Premier Makhura said youth unemployment is the main problem that the province is faced with. Youth unemployment is the most acute and primary economic problem of our time. In Gauteng we have about 2.7 million young people of working age who are not in education or employment. Two years after we launched Tshepo 500000, we reached 354 633 young people. That is when we decided to increase our target to empower 1 million young people by 2019, Makhura said.He said Tshepo One Million is aimed at providing opportunities to youths, especially those in townships, who are confronted by a lack of skills and limited opportunities. This is part of our radical economic transformation and we can only achieve it through partnerships with the private sector, he said.Gauteng economic development MEC Lebogang Maile said the biggest concern is to grow the economy and create jobs, especially for the unemployed youth. Through our own infrastructure investment, there will be about R42m by 2019 that we are going to invest as the provincial government. The question we need to ask ourselves is what the value of the investment we make is and how many jobs are we creating. And as I say, we need about 600000 jobs to keep up, Maile said.He said there were at least 2.7 million young people who are unemployed in the province.Xaba said social development is providing skills training to young females who are receiving a grant. We are providing young females with skills so they are not fully dependent on the state. They are trained in all the sectors from hospitality to beauty, Xaba said.Meanwhile the unemployment rate in South Africa increased to 27.7% in the first quarter of 2017 from 26.5% in the previous period.It is the highest jobless rate since the first quarter of 2004 as unemployment rose faster than employment and more people joined the labour force.The unemployment rate in South Africa averaged 25.41% from 2000 until 2017, reaching an all time high of 31.2% in the first quarter of 2003 and a record low of 21.5% in the fourth quarter of 2008.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za