Hand crafted creations by T-Squared Clothing, which are undoubtedly trendy, minimalist and affordable, are making a fashionable statement in Gugulethu, Cape Town.The brand, which is growing in popularity in other parts of the country like KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng, is a true testimony of hard work and perseverance.Entrepreneur and founder Thabiso Mokomele is a goal driven young man from the well-known streets of Gugulethu, Cape Town.The inspiration of the name T-Squared came from the names Thabiso and Thapelo.The 25 year old is a true epitome of a hard worker as he is using a garage space at home as a creative workshop used as a space for selling and manufacturing of the garments.Mokomele said his motivation for starting this brand was the fact that there were no other brands which represented Gugulethu the time he started in 2008.He had always been passionate about starting his own clothing brand and love street wear, which led to him starting his own brand.Mokomele passionately spoke about his brand and stated that it is special and unique because of the fact that the garments are hand crafted. We are selling a wide range of products and our garments are hand crafted, meaning that we manufacture our garments ourselves and this actually sets us apart from other brands, Mokomele said.Furthermore, the brand which targets students and young professionals, provides customers with impeccable in-store services. In our store, customers get an in-store experience by seeing their garments being made in front of them. Our clothing reflects our values of minimalist street wear design, with a focus on the quality of the material, construction and silhouettes relevant to urban youth. Our mission is to inspire the youth of South Africa through our work, we want our customers to be involved in the process and educate the local community on the value of local craft production. Mokomele visions that his brand becomes SA s leading street and urban wear brand by 2018, which will be achieved by finding the right employee fit that is aligned with our brand building solid customer relationships and be consistent in our quality .He said the reason his customers keep coming back is the quality and durability of the garment and their minimal look with a focus on detail and quality construction. We are opening a store at the Newtown workshop, which is situated next to the Newtown Junction Mall. Our vision is to be the leading street and urban wear brand by 2018. In order for us to see this vision coming to life, we had no other choice but move to Johannesburg and open a store in this space which is surrounded by other creatives. The Gugulethu brand was established in 2008 and stands for quality local design and manufacture with a global outlook.Mokomele shared some wise words to those who would like to start a similar business or establish themselves in the fashion manufacturing industry. If you have an idea, start today. Don t seek validation from others, if you are passionate about something, that is more than enough. KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE