Small fruit and meat vendors operating in open spaces in the public claim they are losing business because of the cold winter season.Most of the street vendors provide for the main source of income for their household, bringing food to their families and paying school fees for their children.Despite their contribution to the economy, the informal workers are facing many challenges and are often overlooked.A group of informal traders said that each time before an election politicians would come and promise them shelters so that their customers can be served in a healthy environment.The street vendors who are selling meat, vegetables and food on the road and the bus and taxi rank are the hardest hit during winter as they have to have shelter to conduct their businesses.Yesterday it was quiet at the bus and taxi rank in George as there were no sign of meat and fruit vendors because of the cold weather conditions.The small businesses have to build makeshift shelters to escape the rain and to keep themselves warm.The small entrepreneurs said that shelters to protect them from the rain were needed and attempts to draw the attention of the authorities had drawn a blank.They also said that each time before an election, politicians visited their stalls during campaigns and promised them shelters but never returned to them after they had been voted into office.Yesterday the vendors said that unity among the hawkers would help draw the attention of the authorities. We need to come together as hawkers and have one voice in order to make ourselves heard by authorities, Jonathan Vries said.Nosimilo Mawephu, who sells chicken in Sandkraal road, said that in winter the business was slow because of the cold and rainy weather. We don t have a shelter where we can operate without being caught by rain. This business is our only source of income, but it s difficult because we can t stand the cold weather. To keep warm, we have to make Gillies heaters but they are dangerous because the smoke goes straight to the meat and causes a bad smell. Even customers are unable to come and sit here, because the rainwater is seeping through. Small business people need stalls built with bricks and proper braai stands to accommodate our customers, Mawephu said.A food seller in Lawaaikamp township complained that even though he was trying to make his stand safer, he still lost customers because he didn t have a proper shelter for people to sit down and eat.Lumko Qhaga said that his business ran smoothly in summer conditions but when the cold weather set in, no one wanted to come to a cold stall dripping with rainwater. Before the elections last year, we saw politicians coming to us and promising shelters if we voted for their parties. We have lost hope that we will ever be treated with respect. The money we are making from the stalls pays our bills, pays for transport and for the kids food and clothes. But we are forced to close business because of the weather and it s not good for our health either. We wouldn t be closing our businesses if we had shelters around here. All we want is a healthy environment where we can operate at ease and for the benefit of our customers, he said.A local businessman in the CBD said that in order for small traders to prosper they needed decent shelters for their goods and a healthy environment. Small entrepreneurs need government support to build their businesses. These are the people who also contribute to the economy of this country. During the cold weather, they can t operate because they don t have shelter. But their voice can be heard if they come together because their problem is common. What they want is adecent business environment, the businessman said.MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za