Dis-saving is on the rise as consumers dip into their retirement savings to pay for everyday living expenses. It’s a disaster waiting to happen as the country sinks into recession for the first time in eight years, with experts warning against the practice which, in the long run, is likely to be devastating. Andrew Davison head of investment consulting at Old Mutual Corporate Consultants, said that the recently released OM corporate retirement monitor showed a dramatic increase in the number of fund members who intended drawing cash from their retirement savings should they change jobs (35% compared to 19% four years ago). There are several factors influencing this behaviour, including the economic downturn, increased debt levels, an increase in retrenchments and the tendency to change jobs more frequently. He said South Africans might be more inclined to spend their retirement savings when they should instead be reinvesting it for when they most needed it, namely at retirement. “Unfortunately, the decision to access retirement savings early to alleviate financial strain has a huge impact on future finances, one that retirement members often fail to take into account, or are simply not informed about.” Davison gave an example. “If at the age of 25, Joe Soap had started contributing 12% of his salary towards his retirement savings and he earned returns of 4.3% above inflation a year on average, he would have accumulated savings of almost 10 times his annual salary at retirement. This is based on the assumption that he has a 40-year working lifespan. “His accumulated savings with interest would be sufficient to provide a retirement income of about 70% of his final salary. If his savings continued to earn after-inflation returns of 3.5% a year after retirement, he could enjoy annual increases in pension roughly in line with inflation and his retirement savings could potentially last for another 20 years, or until he turns 85,” he said. The Treasury has recognised the growing impact that this culture of dissaving is having on the South African economy. In addition to imposing existing heavy tax penalties for early withdrawals of retirement savings, they are also looking at other ways to discourage this behaviour. These measures include requiring compulsory preservation in all but a few extreme circumstances, such as severe illness or retrenchment. “In a nutshell, if you change jobs and withdraw a lump sum from your retirement savings, only the first R25 000 is tax-free.” Also, you only get this R25000 tax-free allowance once in your lifetime. The next time you choose to withdraw your retirement savings, you will pay tax on the full amount. The rate of tax can be as high as 36% for larger amounts, Davison said. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za