Helen Zille s privilege as a white person makes her to be out of sync with the rest of South Africa where debate about colonialism had already taken place. Instead of thinking that decolonisation is anti-white, Zille should know that it is anti-whiteness and that the colonial project in Africa and Asia were vastly different. Like Margaret Thatcher, Zille has led her party to great success but this will also bring about her demise.As sure as the DA will rebel against its black leader, as in the case of Thatcher, who was dealt a final blow by her party, so too will Zille be dealt with by he party. Thatcher often insisted that she came from humble beginnings and let it known that both her secondary schooling as well as her studies at Oxford were funded through scholarships. She followed her father into politics, he being a liberal while she would later become a staunch member of the Conservative Party.Later, when becoming Conservative Party leader, Thatcher modernised the party and focussed primarily on communications and in the processes become a pioneer of modern day political spin. Many tend only to remember the three general election victories, but hardly the electoral victory of 1979, which was won by a majority of a mere 44 seats. Once in power, Thatcher almost decimated the opposition Labour Party.Thatcher though was not far from controversy. She is reported to have once said: A world without nuclear weapons would be less stable and more dangerous for all of us. As leader of the opposition before being elected Prime Minister she said: People are rather really afraid that this country might be swamped by people with a different culture. Her electoral victories and her stance against Europe which would later cost her dearly, are attributed to her racist undertones which she brought back into mainstream politics. Racism, subvert, but driven by poor, working class fears.In response to the death of Irish freedom fighter, Bobby Sands, Thatcher said: Mr Sands is a convicted criminal. While the Thatcher Foundation makes sure to publish a number of extracts from pieces where Thatcher condemns apartheid, it took David Cameron, a Tory Prime Minister, to later distance the party from Thatcher s comments calling the ANC terrorists . Thatcher also vehemently fought economic sanctions against apartheid South Africa.In the end, not being able to complete her third term, Thatcher s party turned on her and disposed of her, bringing the Iron Lady close to tears on the very steps of Downing Street.Our homegrown Iron Lady has a number of similarities to Thatcher, not least her desire to work with men rather than with women.Zille too came from humble beginnings though in South Africa, colonialism favoured Zille more because of the colour of her skin than even a wealthy black person at the time.Zille s winning the Western Cape all started through the coalition she put together in the city of Cape Town in 2006 while the ANC in the province is probably close to decimation at the moment.Through her ability to modernise the DA, Zille has not only been able to lead the DA to three successful elections, first in the city of Cape Town and then in the Western Cape, but she has also sought it necessary to prioritise communications and emerging young leaders in the party.From her days as mayor in the city of Cape Town, she would often surround herself with young people and it is no surprise that no less than two young spokespeople, of colour, would take up influential positions in the DA under her watch.First Lindiwe Mazibuko going from, DA intern, to DA researcher, to DA national spokesperson to parliamentary leader and then Mmusi Maimane also from national spokesperson to parliamentary leader and then leader of the party, both under the pupillage of Madam Zille.Much has been said and written about her tweets and their downright racist nature. In her own defence, Zille contends that she apologised for introducing a discussion on colonialism, based on the Singaporean experience, in South Africa and people were just not ready for it .Zille s white privilege does not allow her to be in sync with the views of the majority of South Africans who hold her thoughts on colonialism in contempt and insensitive. Maimane, on the other hand, though in sync with the views of the majority of South Africans on colonialism is not clued up on the views of the majority of the members of his party.The reality is that South Africans and especially young people, have been discussing and debating colonialism through in the campaign of decolonisation.Zille and her ilk though, again based on their unwillingness to recognise their white privilege, think that decolonisation is anti-white. Rather, it is anti-whiteness.The struggle for black people in South Africa, as if they do not have enough struggles of their own, is compounded by this inability for the majority of whites to firstly recognise their white privilege, no matter how poor they were or how long they fought in the struggle against apartheid.Secondly, that the majority of whites cannot distinguish between them as white people and whiteness as a social system and how they benefit from this system, further compounds this discussion.Zille might do well to know that white people, among themselves, need to chat and get up to date about colonialism. One may suggest that the majority of whites who joined the congress movement did so because, as communists, they could easily recognise their privilege.People such as Jack and Ray Simons, Ruth First, Joe Slovo and Helen Joseph, recognised that despite them being Jews fleeing persecution in Europe, they entered black spaces in South Africa, such as the congress movement, as privileged comrades.Subsequently, after recognising this privilege they would use it to fight the struggle against whiteness.Of course, these whites were very different from the liberal ones that Steve Bantu Biko would have encountered in SA Student Organisation. Those whites wanted by all means to maintain their privilege and then tried to appease their consciences by fighting the system but this was a contradiction, as pointed out by Biko.Furthermore, if Zille cared to know then she would have been apprised of the differences in colonialism in continents such as Africa and Asia, for example. Differences certainly highlighted in the decolonisation discourse.The Europeans were by far worse colonialists than the Asians, such as the Japanese. Africa s colonialism in a nutshell was exploitative and extractive, Asia s on the other hand was developmental.Yet even these are gross generalisations. For example, land was not stolen in eastern Africa by the colonialists as much as it was in the south. Southern Africa has the reality of settler colonialism, the rest of the continent the colonialists packed up and left. Therefore, in the continent itself there are various variations of colonialism probably the worse being Belgian Congo.Studies by scholars such as Randall S Jones, have shown the colonial legacy in Asia left by the Japanese in infrastructure and human capital, that is health and education, in places such as South Korea was far more beneficial. It is no secret, despite them benefitting from it, the Japanese accelerated industrialization in the Korean peninsula.Scholars such as Myung Soo Cha suggest that General Parks who accelerated in South Korea the developmental state, a very Japanese concept, was schooled by the Japanese.In Africa, railway lines simply go to the coast because minerals and produce had to get out of the continent. In countries such as South Korea, infrastructure initiated by the Japanese was for the development of the country. The Japanese wanted educated and healthy slaves and therefore invested in health and education services. The Japanese were simply far better colonialists than their European counterparts.Like Thatcher, Zille will suffer the same fate at the hands of her party. She has attempted to become too invincible and her responses to her castigation for the infamous colonial tweets is evidence of that above the party mentality. She thinks she is secured because, like Thatcher, she enjoys the support of the rank and file of her party and even maybe the electorate in the Western Cape.But democracy, believe it or not, safeguards us even against iron leaders such as Thatcher and Zille.Meokgo MatubaMeokgo Matuba is the secretary general of the ANC Women s League