South Africa has slipped into recession for the first time in eight years since the 2008-09 recession. The latest growth figures showing the economy contracted by 0.7% in the first three months of the year after shrinking by 0.3% in the fourth quarter of 2016, figures released by Stats SA confirmed yesterday.This means the long queues of jobseekers will double as the domestic economy hit rock bottom. The recession announcement came as a surprise as economists expected a quarter-on-quarter GDP expansion of 0.9% given high commodity prices and an easing of the severe drought experienced in the last two years. South Africa has now officially joined its two fellow members of the Brics bloc, Russia and Brazil, who are also in recession.The main contributors to the recession were the manufacturing and trade sectors, which dropped 3.7% and 5.9% respectively. We can now pronounce that the economy is in recession, deputy director general of economic statistics at Stats SA Joe de Beer said. The announcement saw the rand extend its losses against the dollar to more than 1% to a session low of R12.85/$. Government bonds also weakened. The poor growth numbers will pile more pressure on the government to get the economy back on track faster as it aims to stave off further credit rating downgrades.Ratings agencies S&amp;P Global Ratings and Fitch last week said risks to ratings include weak economic growth and political uncertainty ahead of the ANC s national conference in December when a successor to President Jacob Zuma as party leader will be chosen. Kevin Lings, chief economist of Stanlib, said the latest GDP performance was well below market expectations. Lings said the latest GDP growth data confirmed that the South African economy had lost significant momentum in recent years and had now officially fallen into recession. Without a pick-up in economic growth, the fiscal authorities are going to find it increasingly difficult to meet their tax revenue projections, which will start to create significant additional social, political and economic pressure, he said. Tumisho Grater, Novare Actuaries and Consultants economic strategist, said this reading echoed the concerns that have been highlighted by credit rating agencies just a few days ago, with S&amp;P stating that country s GDP growth remained a rating weakness. The pace of economic growth remains weak and will impact on all the metrics across the board. From a government perspective, this is likely to put further pressure on revenue collections, which are much-needed funds that are crucial to investing in growth enhancing projects, she said.Another economist, Laura Campbell, said the news came as a shock and had dashed hopes of achieving a 1% growth rate this year. However, Grater believes that from a monetary policy point of view, this news increases chances of some reduction in interest rates before the end of the year.-THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za