A FAMILY in Crosby, Johannesburg has been left reeling by the killing of a family member in what is believed to have been an attempted break-in at their home yesterday.The man was found dead by his wife outside their house. A family member who did not want to be named said it was still unclear what happened as there had been no witnesses. We are not really sure what happened but the wife is the one who found him lying on the ground and she screamed. That is when the children and every one rushed outside.The children have been left traumatised by the incident. It all happened so suddenly, he said. Added to the trauma of losing their loved one so tragically, he said, was the anxiety of not knowing when they would be able to bury him due to the ongoing strike by workers at mortuaries.Meanwhile, two people were killed and one other injured in two separate crime-related incidents in Johannesburg yesterday. In one incident, a man believed to be in his 40s was attacked allegedly by armed men while travelling on Bowling Avenue in Sandton.In the other incident, one person was shot dead and another one injured in an attempted hijacking at the Glen Shopping Centre, south of Johannesburg. According to emergency services ER24, the man was found lying on the front seat of his car which was on the side of the road. Paramedics assessed the man and found that he had sustained numerous gunshot wounds and showed no signs of life. Unfortunately, nothing could be done for the man and he was declared dead on the scene, ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said.It is alleged that a number of gunmen opened fire on the driver and vehicle, causing him to crash into the pavement. Provincial police spokesperson Lt-Col Lungelo Dlamini said preliminary police investigations indicated that the man was attacked by four armed men and it was not clear what the motive behind the attack was. The man was apparently from a bank, at this stage we don t know if any money was taken from his car as the suspects have fled. We are investigating the possibility that he was followed from the bank and we believe the motive was robbery. Dlamini said four armed suspects attempted to rob a courier van in the basement of the shopping centre near Edgars when security guards opened fire. The suspects ambushed a RAM courier van delivering goods this morning, one suspect was shot dead and one RAM employee was injured and immediately rushed to hospital, Dlamini said.However, he said, nothing had been stolen and three of the suspects fled the scene. Dlamini said there were no leads as yet and the police are investigating.LILLIAN SELAPISA, NHLANHLA MOYO AND CALLYN MARKS lillians@thenewage&nbsp;