The department of agriculture, forestry and fisheries has allocated R25m to drought relief programmes for the province. The department said it was only in the Northern Cape where distribution was still taking place because of the vast and long distances. With regard to the provincial department of agriculture in Northern Cape, R20m was allocated to procure animal food and an additional R5m was allocated to transport donated from Western Cape and Mpumalanga, the department said.The province, along with some other provinces, was hit very hard by the drought with some areas still battling to make ends meet, especially the farmers. The department said the money was part of the relief programme it initiated in provinces with the focus on assisting farmers and communities. The department has spent R210m of the allocated R212m. With the allocated funds, the department has managed to assist 74 335 farmers across the country, the department said.Other provinces received their share with Eastern Cape taking R29m, Free State R31m and others sharing. The Red Meat Producers manager, Derrick Krapohl, said the province was still battling with the aftermath of drought. Krapohl said the economic climate in the country was a major concern as food prices, particularly red meat, were rising and forcing consumers to cough out more money. We are also looking at the effects of the drought we had. Yes, in some parts of the province they are still experiencing that. With the Cape Town storm having recently come across parts of Calvinia and Sunderland, it s a relief for our members that side, he said.Krapohl said consumers could expect the prices of red a to remain high for the next five years unless sufficient rain falls. He said among the topics discussed in the congress was how to transfer skills to up and coming farmers so that the sector did not suffer from a lack of skilled people to take it forward in the coming years. We going to conduct a training workshop for young farmers in the coming months, that will be a partnership between the department as well as other stakeholders, he said.The department of water and sanitation has called on members of the community to continue saving water during the winter period. The message comes after the department reported that there had been a decrease in water levels in the province which stood st 91.5% from the 100% reported recently. Water levels are continuing to drop gradually, despite good rains that have been experienced in some parts of the country, spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said.Ratau said the department was calling on members of the society to adhere to water restrictions imposed by different municipalities in the province. It is important that water users adhere to water restrictions imposed by their municipalities and continue using water sparingly, saving this precious resource, he said.Ratau said that the national storage was at 55.4% and more needed to be done to educate residents that the country was not yet out of the danger of drought. Ratau urged the people of the province to keep using water wisely as there were still areas which were not receiving rain.Experts warned that it was too early to start celebrating recent rains which had been falling throughout the country, as the agricultural sector was not out of the woods and the drought was still persisting in some parts of the country. Consumers will be the ones hardest hit as it will be difficult to bring prices of foods down any time soon.Besides the level dams in the province showing a significant increase, even the department of water and sanitation urged residents not to rely on rains as the country was still in drought and they must keep using water sparingly.Recently, the department of water and sanitation, in partnership with two district municipalities, distributed 50000 water saving blocks. Provincial spokesperson for the department, Amogelang Moholoeng, said an initiative aimed at inculcating a water-saving culture to communities would see officials embarking on a door to door campaign to raise awareness on water scarcity. The department has partnered with the John Taolo Gaetsewe and ZF Mgcawu district s municipalities to address the water shortages. The Drop-the-Block is an ecofriendly innovation of placing a block or a brick in a toilet tank/cistern to save water. It is designed to reduce potable water consumption by up to two litres a flush, Moholoeng said.TIISETSO MANOKOtiisetsom@thenewage.co.za