A joint programme of action between the leagues of the ANC on the campaign for the former African Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma taking over the reins of the governing party is gaining momentum.ANC Women s League (ANCWL) president Bathabile Dlamini confirmed yesterday that the women s league would be meeting with the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) on Monday to share pointers on the youth league s proposed slate, which placed Dlamini Zuma at the helm of the ruling party, ahead of its December elective conference. We highly appreciate what the youth league has done. They are an official structure of the ANC and they have a right to nominate in the ANC. We ll work together to strengthen the negotiations with our people, Dlamini told The New Age.Dlamini s comments come as the youth league and MK Veterans Association (MKMVA) unanimously pronounced Dlamini Zuma as their preferred candidate to take over the ANC presidency after President Jacob Zuma s term ends in December.Dlamini, making reference to the youth league s proposal that the ANC national executive committee (NEC) top six structure consist of two deputy secretary-generals, said the women s league would lend its ear to the young lions on the matter. We ll discuss that in the meeting. We will prioritise mass mobilisation for our president elect. There has always been a good relationship between the youth league and women s league. As the women s league, we want to see our leader emerge in the ANC. Dlamini said that the women s league would fine tune the ANC s gender parity policy to ensure that women were given an equal footing to men on leadership in the party.She said the ANCWL would take the issue to the ANC s national policy conference at the end of the month. We don t have a commission on the emancipation of women. Society is not guided on issues of women s emancipation. The women s league can t be the only structure in the ANC to talk about issues of patriarchy, we need a structure that will give direction on that front, she said.Dlamini also reiterated the women s league s confidence in Dlamini Zuma ahead of the party s December elective conference. Firstly, everyone in South Africa knows Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, but also in Africa. No smear campaign will succeed in discrediting her. She s always been resolute in every position she has occupied, in Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs. She made an indelible mark wherever she was. ANCYL secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza said both ANC leagues would target ANC branches to convince them of their presidential candidate. If we have branches of the youth league and women s league working together, we are guaranteed a positive result. The fact that we borrow from the same tools of analysis has resulted in us reaching the same conclusion, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za