A DISPUTE between factions of the ANC s military veterans took a turn for the worse yesterday after the MK Military Veterans Association (MKMVA), rubbished the bona fides of a group of former commissars led by Siphiwe Nyanda.Briefing journalists in Johannesburg yesterday, MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe poured cold water on the MK Veterans national council steering committee s decision to boycott the ANC s upcoming national consultative conference. He said the group s decision was largely much ado about nothing as they were not a legitimate structure of the ANC. There is this structure (MKMVA) that is going to the conference that is recognised by the ANC and its national executive committee (NEC) of two weeks ago. We ve been allocated 30 delegates to the conference so they are not a structure of MKMVA, it doesn t really matter, they were never invited to the conference, Maphatsoe said.Maphatosoe s comments come on the back of the MK council saying on Tuesday that MKMVA s upcoming national elective conference, starting on Friday was a sham as it took place under heightened divisions in the MK rank and file.Despite the MK council s objections to both ANC and MKMVA conference s, Maphatsoe said MKMVA s elective conference would go ahead with or without the MK council. We ve engaged the comrades from the MK council, and we are not closing our doors.We said that we are still opening our doors because this association is for all members of MK. We don t expect disruptions at the conference of MKMVA. There s never been disruptions in any MKMVA conference. Delegates have been elected from their regions, and they are all inclusive. MKMVA treasurer general Des van Rooyen was even more scathing of the MK council. He said the MK council had no standing in the ANC. The council is not a structure. This is just a group of members who are disgruntled. MKMVA can be equated to a council, in a sense that we are a constitutionally established structure. This is the only structure that is enjoying recognition from the ANC. We entertained the council on the basis of them having served in various responsibilities within MKMVA but also we wanted them to come on board in as far as the preparations for our conference is concerned. All our efforts hitherto have definitely failed, so there s no way which our constitutional mandate of ensuring we hold a successful conference is stalled by that particular thing, Van Rooyen saidBONOLO SELEBANO