We know Helen Zille and Twitter dramas are what Russian bots are to fake news.Her ignorant views on colonialism kicked off this latest round, as if a thousand voices cried out at once and face-palmed.But, it s either assumed we all know how harmful colonialism was, or, and this is the part that s more infuriating to anyone remotely educated, that everyone is too afraid to speak the truth she spoke because the politically correct police will descend.Now, colonialism as a positive doesn t need debunking. It wasn t sunshine and roses.Historians argue that with enough time we will understand colonialism with the horror we ascribe to Genghis Khan s Mongol hordes.The need for truth-telling is real because we re taught to believe the West equals progress.So here are five actual examples where people of colour offered something to the world, in contrast to the still-assumed revisionism (how quaint?) that colonialism equals advancement. On encountering native Americans and east Africans, the British were surprised to find them swimming freestyle, thinking they were savages lashing the water violently with their arms like the sails of a windmills .They were adamant that breaststroke was superior and faster, using it exclusively in competition until 1844. The north Americans easily beat the British at a meet in London and, soon after, freestyle became the accepted fastest stroke. Knowledge and science would ve been lost to Europe were it not for brown people. The progress of Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and Rome was curated by Middle Eastern and Muslim, Arab and Jewish societies while Europe was stuck in the Dark Ages.In turn came the Renaissance, the industrial revolution and the technological age. The colonial myth would have us believe that the British sauntered into Africa with the benefits of modernism for backward peoplesWhat s forgotten is resistance to conquest and rebellion to occupation in the face of genocide and terror, lasting centuries. The subject peoples of empire did not go quietly into history s goodnight despite what, ahem, whitewashing, would have us believe. We fought back.We re still here.At the same time, the majority in Europe during colonialism were working poor, indigent and serfs, so advances were only for the elite.In fact, the colonists were largely from that and the trading class looking for a better life in the great unknown.It allowed an escape from an oppressive European caste system. And then there s the origin of soap in Babylon. When the Portuguese, Dutch and British arrived in southern Africa, they found an existing network of trade between precolonial Africa, the Mediterranean, Asia and the Indian Ocean region.Sultanates of east Africa were of Pers-Arab and Bantu origin, with sea routes to trade centres operating since the 1500s.Workers in sub-Saharan Africa were producing steels of a better grade than those of their counterparts in Europe and the highly developed West African textile workshops produced fine cloths for export long before the arrival of European traders . We know Elvis appropriated black southern rock. Going deeper, considering the roots of black American culture in west Africa and its dominance in popular music, the beats and rhythms of modern sound is African at its core. This despite imperialist subjugation and attempts at actual and cultural genocide.More fascinating?In South Africa boere musiek isn t a cut-and-dried all white, all khaki, lang-arm thing either. Even vernacular considered cool comes from the thriving communities very far from the white middle class. Styles and speech of the oppressed finds its way into mainstream cultural expression.Pierre de Vos was right when he said of Zille s colonial revisionism that it was premised on the untenable (racist) assumption that colonised countries would not have developed without being colonised and exploited .If you feel dismissive of that, wondering why all white countries are advanced and powerful, read many of the books destroying that anorexic thinking.Or consider that white countries, as natural successors to colonial empires, exploited our resources, labour, dignity and freedoms.And then built up for themselves, over centuries, a base of things, commodities and wealth and military force projection, creating free time and safety for innovation and industry. Once this leg up was attained along with continued plunder and subjugation of lands and people, the stratum was set.One we re still trying to break today.But we colonised have contributed in many, many ways.Imperialism, colonialism and subjugation works to erase that. It eliminates memory. It appropriates.It makes us forget. Or it tries.Ayesha FakieAyesha Fakie is the head of the sustained dialogue programme at the Institute for Justice and Reconciliation