AS THE DA continues to be embarrassed over its flip-flop on Helen Zille s suspension, the ANC has again called on her to resign as Western Cape premier.Acting ANC leader in the province, Khaya Magaxa, also accused the DA of not knowing how to deal with Zille.He said: The DA is quick to tell other parties what to do and suspend all and sundry, but is clearly a lame duck that just does not have the political will to deal with its own errant members and especially stubborn Zille properly to recall her from her government position. Her party has now reduced her to a lame duck premier that may soon not even attend a DA caucus in the legislature. On Saturday in Gauteng, DA leader Mmusi Maimane, announced at a media conference that the party s Federal Executive had resolved that Zille be suspended from all party related activities until such time as her disciplinary hearing in connection with social media messages was concluded.However, Zille did not take this lying down. On social media she stood her ground and questioned her suspension. I am obviously prepared to face a full disciplinary hearing. I have not accepted that the DA has a right to find me guilty and penalise me before the hearing even takes place. I cannot be bullied into resigning or incriminating myself. Her action yielded results and she posted later on Saturday: The DA now changing its suspension statement saying I have 72 hours to say why the FedEx should not suspend me. Meanwhile, Magaxa has repeated his call for Zille to immediately resign as Western Cape premier.He said: Zille s earlier Twitter rants on the virtues of certain apartheid and racial colonialism were the last straw.It did not only bring disrepute to her party, but also embarrassed her high office as first citizen of the province and the Western Cape legislature. He said it was also abundantly clear that the power-crazy Zille was determined to fight for her political life and to hang onto the comforts of the official home. She refuses to see the signs that she has fallen to become expendable and a serious liability. In fact, he said, it was now evident that Zille had stooped to turn her bun fight into a personal and desperate attempt to cling to power by destruction. Zille s grabbing onto her position very much resembles the desperation of the erstwhile apartheid president of the old South Africa PW Botha who also fought off the inevitable. In the besieged Zille s case, she suffers a self-induced breach of public trust, diminished following the fallout with her party that now demands that she falls on her sword and resigns soonest. She is not good enough for the DA and most certainly not good enough for the Western Cape. She is past her sell-by date. It is time to pack up and call it a day, Zille. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN