PUBLIC protector Busi Mkhwebane is correct in saying the SA Reserve Bank (SARB) should promote development and transformation and not be used to promote monopoly interests.The comments were made by the lead researcher of the Bench Marks Foundation, David van Wyk, in the wake of Mkhwebane s report on the R1.125bn apartheid era bailout of Bankorp, which was later bought by Absa.Mkhwebane also recommended a Constitutional amendment on the powers of the Reserve Bank. The protector was slammed by the DA and economists alike, but Van Wyk said the SARB is meant to serve the people of SA and not its shareholders. It s problematic that the SARB is privately owned. You can see that it s problematic from the deals that happened between it, Absa and apartheid banks, he said. He said most of the Afrikaaner banks during apartheid were the creation of Reserve Bank policy.Van Wyk said with investigations into state corruption in respect of Nkandla having been undertaken, corruption which took place under the previous regime should not be ignored. He said it was worrying that the banking sector in SA was monopolised by four big banks. We also have five companies dominating coal mining and coal exports, three companies dominating platinum mining in SA. There is some serious inequality, he said. He slammed reports that the rand took a knock following Mkhwebane s announcements. Neo-liberal economists tend to objectify and create superstitions around the markets. The market is not something out there which is mysterious, a ghost that is floating in the air, it is human beings that are trading, he said.Meanwhile, Parliament said yesterday it was considering Mkhwebane s report and her remedial action related to the Reserve Bank. The report, among others, directs the chairperson of the National Assembly s portfolio committee on justice and correctional services to initiate a process that will result in the amendment of section 224 of the Constitution, in pursuit of improving socio-economic conditions of the citizens of the republic, Parliament spokesperson, Moloto Mothapo said. Parliament will consider the report through its usual internal processes and determine an appropriate course of action. MTHOKOZISI DUBE mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za