A WEEK ago, world leading long jump athlete Luvo Manyonga had his fans with their hearts in their mouths as he left the track grimacing in pain. Many feared his World Championship participation might be in jeopardy as he clutched his left ankle following his winning performance at the IAAF Diamond League meeting in Stockholm.But as it turns out, it may not be long before the injured long jump star returns to the sandpit as his rehabilitation nears completion. His team are already eyeing the Diamond League meeting in Rabat on July 16. Depending on how his recovery goes, I might have him doing his run-ups at full speed by the end of the week.He could even do a few jumps, Manyonga s coach Neil Cornelius said. Manyonga sustained the injury after landing awkwardly in his last jump of 8.20m. He looked in discomfort, clutching his left ankle as he hobbled off the sandpit aided by medics, leaving many to fear he might miss out on the IAAF World Championships in London next month.His management said the 26 year old would go for a scan as a precaution as soon as he returned home from his European tour. And he has been back in the country to recover fully for the Championships in London, which would follow his sojourn in Morocco. There s nothing to worry about, it s just important not to take any risks before the World Championships in London, as there s obviously a lot at stake for the Rio Olympics silver medallist, Cornelius said. The best effort of 8.36m, however, has helped Manyonga to establish a good lead in the series and he will head to Morocco for the 10th of the 14 Diamond League series legs confident of maintaining his top position.The South African is the world s leading jumper with his best leap of 8.65m and is followed by compatriot Ruswahl Samaai (8.49m) in the world rankings. With 8.22m, Zarck Visser is third in the country and seventh in the world while Khotso Mokoena (8.19m) is 11th in the world. It appears the fight for the three available places in the SA team for the World Championships would be confined to the latter two.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za