Mahatma Gandhi once said: Your struggles develop your strengths. When you go through hardships and decide not to surrender, that is strength. This typifies Mduduzi Luthuli, who had to deal with the horrifying murder of his mother, Sindisiwe Luthuli, who, at 52 was killed by her lover when Luthuli was 28.Such challenges did not dampen Mduduzi s spirit and he now has his own wealth management firm, bringing transformation to a sector that has been dominated by conglomerates for the past century.Born and bred in Durban, Mduduzi is not directly related to chief Albert Luthuli.He is the first of two children raised by their single mother who was a teacher by profession, initially in Umlazi and then in J section.His younger sister, Sithuthukile Zama (half sister) is 10 years younger than he is. Luthuli says that his relationship with his sister was not always strong. She was just my kid sister and we only realised after my mother s death that we really did not know each other. That is when we became closer to each other. Luthuli said.Luthuli said that his sister stayed with him for three years but presently she is with her father,Luthuli s father died when he was seven years old.As a child growing up, his family moved around a lot and he and his mother moved to Kloof outside Durban where he attended Kloof Primary School, later moving to Montclair and Parkview Primary which later became Glenwood Preparatory where he matriculated.He played rugby and got full colours and still holds close the values he learned on the field, but rugby was not the only extra mural activity he excelled in. Luthuli also managed to get half-colours for public speaking at that Kwazulu-Natal Toastmasters International but like every proper Durbanite, when it comes to rugby teams, he is a Sharks supporter.Luthuli says that he came to realise quite early that life is not all sunshine and butterflies and had to wake up and smell the coffee quite soon. That is when he started working hard in school get a bursary to help his mother pay for his tuition. I realised that my mother was working very hard for me, so doing well in school was the least I could do, Luthuli says.One memory Luthuli has about growing up is his mother s love and he is nostalgic about some of the luxuries he was afforded at the time things like Mnet were a huge privilege. For a long time it was just me and my mum and I remember her love for me. Growing up I was pretty spoiled. Through all the trials and tribulations he has faced since, he is grateful for the strong support system and that he and his younger sibling had the chance to really get to know each other after their mother s death in 2013.Soon after matriculating in 2003, Luthuli headed north to the capital city of the country Pretoria, or Tshwane as it is known today.In 2004 he enrolled at the University of Pretoria with a bursary from De Beers Company to study mechanical engineering, but soon decided otherwise as the course did not entail what he had imagined it would I had thought that we would be using our hands and building engines and all that but all I got was just theory and I was not coping with that, Luthuli said.Since he had dropped out of the mechanical engineering course, Luthuli now had to pay back the money he owed to the company. He managed to get a job at a reggae bar to help his mother pay back the De Beers Company, since his mother had signed surety for him. You can imagine how angry my mother was that I dropped out of university were I was lucky enough to get a bursary, Luthuli says.While working at the reggae bar, Luthuli exceeded all expectations as his leadership qualities started to show. He was soon promoted to manager. He stayed with the company from 2004 until 2007, when he realised that he had a knack for all things numbers and decided to pursue a career in the financial jungle.As Luthuli started as a banker in sales and services at Nedbank in 2009, things continued to move upwards for him.At the beginning of 2010 he joined the Liberty Group, working as a senior fund administrator until May 2013.In that same year Luthuli became financial adviser for the company. That was an uphill battle for him as he was working towards a BCom, finance and financial management services from the University of the Witwatersrand, commonly known as Wits University.Yet it was not all doom and gloom for the year. In 2013 Luthuli decided to put a ring on it and marry Trudy Luthuli, who was also his business partner. She has become my biggest cheerleader since my mother died, Luthuli said.In December 2013, Luthuli moved cut ties with the Liberty Group and joined Inkunzi Investments in January 2014, working as a private wealth manager.After seven months with Inkunzi Investments he moved to Kainos Financial Services as a financial planner and stayed a year with the company.But in August of 2015, Luthuli returned to Inkunzi Wealth Group where he was head of wealth management. But as the saying goes, there can never be two bulls in one kraal and this was the moment when Luthuli Capital was born in 2016.Mduduzi Luthuli started his firm with his wife Trudy, who has also worked for several recognisable companies and wealth management firms prior to going into business with her husband Mduduzi.Together they have two daughters aged two and one. Luthuli describes himself as a disciplinarian and hopes he will be the best father he can be to his daughters.Trudy told me that her husband has taught her how to be assertive in order to deliver good service to clients. Be assertive. I have learnt that working with many service providers to meet the clients needs requires a whole lot of assertion. It was difficult at first as I didn t want to be that pushy or aggressive person, but now I understand that it is an essential skill to have to deliver exceptional service to the clients, Trudy says.Luthuli hopes that his story will be an inspiration not only to his own children but to others as well. I would like to be an example to my kids like any other parent but I would like them to always remember that your past or your present does not determine your future, he said.And he hopes one day to surpass chief Albert Luthuli s legacy to build his own legacy.He still regards his mother as his role model but from a business perspective, Luthuli looks up to the likes of Warren Buffett. I have a lot of mentors who do not even know me, but I use their stories to inspire me, Luthuli says.And his wife is also an inspiration as she has taught him that work never ends. Trudy is my biggest cheerleader. Starting a business is not for the meek. At age 31, Luthuli started his firm in September 2016 and wears the hats of director of wealth management and corporate services.He started on his own through a desire to do things his own way. At the moment Luthuli Capital has two full-time staff members and two support staff but due to an upcoming partnership, this will change. Depending on who we partner, this time next year we might have more than 20 staff members, he says.The company closed its Durban-based office in order to build its name in the country s economic hub, Johannesburg.Luthuli Capital manages 45 individual portfolios, with five being corporate schemes. The majority of clients are working professionals. When they sign up, we look at what they want to invest in and the period of time. There is no one-size-fits-all as every client is unique, Luthuli said.When it comes to making their profit Luthuli Capital charges a fee based on performance. If a client has made a choice about cutting ties with Luthuli Capital then that means that we have already disappointed our client, so why charge a termination fee? Luthuli asks.Luthuli said that within the financial advisory sector, clients expect constant feedback, unlike with many sectors where not much contact is given between the client and the service provider. For example, take a doctor. One goes to the doctor and consults, he prescribes medication and then that is it. The doctor will not call you to check if you are in good health, but with our sector constant feedback is paramount, Luthuli said.Financial advisory is a passion as one directly impacts people s lives and their financial stability. It became real for me when I had to process a client s claim. You realise that you re not just selling a product, but a promise that you will be with them should things go wrong, Luthuli said. I also realised that when my mother died she had dealt with a policy pusher . She did not have proper life cover she had paid for eight different funeral policies. Having sound financial advice is so important, Luthuli said.Luthuli says that the financial advisory market is not yet open enough and it is hard to earn people s trust. For instance, I have to work hard to earn the trust of my black clients and in some instances, they expect me to work miracles. There is no industry that is transformed in South Africa. For example, how does Luthuli Capital compete with the likes of Allan Gray when they have 100 years of experience? One lesson that Luthuli says he has learnt is that your work must always speak for itself.-REGOMODITSWE MPUTLE