IN A mission to give quality to public education, the Eastern Cape department of education is determined to ensure the equality of the teacher and pupil ratio per school.In 2016 the Eastern Cape department of education adopted a transformation plan to improve the education system in the province over the next three years. Equal Education Spokesperson Mila Kakaza said central to this plan was school rationalisation and realignment to have functional and productive schools. School rationalisation and realignment is aimed at reducing the number of schools with few pupils or large dysfunctional schools through closing or merging 1902 schools, Kakaza said. Equal Education supports the province s school rationalisation and re-alignment if it is done in a consultative democratic manner and is aimed at fixing schools and realising deadlines outlined by the Norms and Standards for School Infrastructure. Kakaza said a proper consultation process should be completed in alignment with the South African Schools Act (84 of 1996), in which the MEC may close public schools after public hearings and due consideration have been given. After the consultation process and school closure is complete, all assets and liabilities of the school go back to the Department of Public Works and those structures can be used as resource centres for districts.Early this year community members, parents and teachers in different areas where their schools were rationalised and realigned have complained about a lack of consultation and community engaged approach from the department.There is no clear plan about things such as scholar transport, which means that pupils are forced to walk long distances from home to new schools. Eastern Cape department of education spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima said they were in constant consultation with the schools marked for rationalisation and realignment.He said the issue was resourcing these schools because resource allocation was part of the bigger plan of the rationalisation and realignment process. If we are moving students to a bigger school, we need to consider things such as new desks, more toilets and new teachers if the school was previously small.The department always checks the distance that pupils may have to travel and provide transport if need be, Mtima said. They go the extra mile to ensure that pupils are not stranded. He said parents moved their children to the best performing school, leaving the other school with too few pupils to function.He said if a high school had fewer than 200 pupils and a primary school fewer than 135, then there was a high likelihood that it would be rationalised. We want to provide public quality education with the equivalent ratio for educators and pupils.Teachers cannot be overworked and then quality education is expected, Mtima said. However, contrary to what Mtima said, MEC for transport Weziwe Tikana said the budget for the increased need for scholar transport would come from savings from the efficiencies of school rationalisation. The implications of closure, merger and alignment of schools has escalated the demand from 98000 of last year to 114000 pupils who are in need of scholar transport, Tikana said. Equal Education has concerns the departments of education and transport are failing to plan adequately for pupils. SISANDA MADWANTSI provinces@thenewage.co.za