Learning and teaching could be brought to a halt if the provincial government continues to ignore the demands of teachers in the Nkangala district and other parts of the province, the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) has warned.Members of the union last Thursday abandoned classes to take part in protest action and handed over a memorandum of demands to the district education authorities at their offices in KwaMhlanga.The action, they said, was a build-up to a mass protest on Wednesday. Pupils attended classes for about three hours a day and returned home while the teachers abandoned classes to take part in protests at the regional offices of the education department in KwaMhlanga, Mbombela, Ermelo and Bushbuckridge.Sadtu district secretary January Mthimunye said the memorandum was directed to Premier David Mabuza and his exco. Mthimunye said they were angry about the provincial government s moratorium apparently disturbing the delivery of quality education. He said among others, the government abolished the advertising and filling of vacant posts in the education department. As Sadtu with about 24 000 members in the district, we want the moratorium lifted since it disturbs the standard of serving our communities in the province. We want to see the vacant posts being advertised and filled. No one has the right to take a decision on our behalf without our agreement. Your (teachers) working conditions cannot just be tampered with since you have a contract with the employer, Mthimunye said.He said the moratorium was also hindering the pupils from focusing on their studies. We are also concerned because the appointment of general workers was even banned. So, pupils are forced to clean classrooms instead of focusing on their studies as pupils. This simply means that they are no longer pupils but cleaners, he said. Among our demands, we are calling on the provincial government to invest in education as its aspect of priority. Any matter affecting employees should be discussed with workers organisation. The premier and his team must ensure that there are general workers at schools. Failure to so will lead us to bring the teaching and learning to halt, However, it was not our intention to cause our children to suffer, Mthimunye said.The protest was supported by other organisations like Cosatu and SACP. SACP secretary in the Ephraim Mogale district, Ambros Mnisi, said: We warn the premier and his team for ignoring the plight of our workers. We also call on the provincial leadership of education to ensure that it resolves the challenge of the teachers as soon as possible. The petition of grievances was handed over to the district education director, Jerry Mabena. Viva, viva, I am taking this podium on behalf of the employer in Mpumalanga, he said. As I am standing here, my principals are waiting for the memorandum. I promise that before the sun sets, the memorandum will have reached the office of the premier. On behalf of the employer, I would like to see you doing the job you have been employed for. FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za