THE need to save water has been intensely encouraged in Port Elizabeth s Nelson Mandela Bay municipality.This comes after the mayor formally declared the metro a disaster area after major storage dams dropped to 38.5%. Athol Trollip said the city faced a severe drought and had been exceptionally dry since July last year.Community members and neighbouring municipalities have been urged to use no more than 60 litres per person, per day. The municipality s chief of staff Kristof Adelbert said it would only be a short period of water restrictions. The end of July will be rain season for us and we are anticipating 17 million litres of water from the Nooitgedagt (Gariep dam). We have created awareness in our goal to urge people to save water and use it carefully.We have ensured this through large campaign with all the local radio stations that cover the metro, Adelbert said. Adelbert said there were billboards on the roads, local newspapers and people dropping off pamphlets at houses, to create awareness.Neighbouring municipalities were encouraged to work together with Nelson Mandela Bay as they were also affected. It was previously said that water from the remaining two sources, Loerie Dam and Nooitgedagt, were being rerouted to limit the number of areas that would be affected.Large construction equipment was being moved to the damaged pipelines for the construction to begin. The areas that were to be affected were: Central, Deal Party, Summerstrand, Charlo, Newton Park, Walmer, Humewood, North End, Korsten, Struandale, Mount Pleasant, Lovemore Park, Lovemore Heights, Algoa Park, Gelvandale, Gelvan Park and parts of New Brighton and KwaZakhele.The municipality said the reality was that all residents living in the metro and neighbouring areas were affected by the water shortage. It said when the dams reached 45% capacity, the metro was going to be declared a disaster area and the municipality would then have to apply to the national government for disaster relief.The worst happened and the mayor declared the metro a disaster area. Wells Estate resident Mvuzo Mbelekane said there was a big problem in the metro regarding water shortages. The water levels in the dams have dropped drastically.There are other municipalities who are using the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality s water supply. This has resulted in people being wise in their water usage, Mbelekane said. Member of the mayoral council for safety and security John Best said a legislative process was under way for the disaster to be promulgated in the provincial gazette. Once the gazette is promulgated and published then we can apply to the government for additional financial assistance. We believe the process can take up to a week, Best said.SISANDA MADWANTSI