&nbsp;MURDER trial of Port Elizabeth businessman Christopher Panayiotou and his co-accused Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko is continuing in the Port Elizabeth High Court.The three are facing charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Jayde Panayiotou on April 21, 2015. On Tuesday and yesterday data analyst.Thereza Botha took to the witness stand and revealed that Panayiotou s mistress s phone was used 17 times to contact one of the men, Trompie , who had been hired to kill Panayiotou s wife.Botha also testified that the cellphone of Panayiotou s cousin was used to contact suspected triggerman Sizwezakhe Vumazonke prior to Jayde s murder and that Panayiotou was in contact more often with self-confessed middleman, who is also his former employee Luthando Siyoni.Last week a video that judge Dayalin Chetty found to be admissible which shows Panayiotou speaking to Siyoni after his wife s murder, was viewed in Court on Wednesday morning. The defence had objected to the video being used as evidence.Panayiotou s lawyer advocate Terry Price argued that the video should be ruled inadmissible because Siyoni was under duress when he tricked Panayiotou into incriminating himself. A police officer testified that the secret video was filmed in a wiretapped car at the Algoa Park Steers just days after Jayde was shot dead.As the video was playing, Jayde s mother Michelle Inggs was comforting her younger sister Tony Inggs. In the video Panayiotou is seated in the front and Siyoni at the back. In their conversation Panayiotou tells Siyoni to destroy his phone and SIM card as the police were also investigating him. He said he did not want his family to be suspicious as well. You need to go to Jeffreys Bay and lie low for a bit and if anyone asks me I will say you went to East London. The boys made it big and I told you to let them do it outside the house. They didn t take the watch or the rings. They were supposed to do it outside the house.Now this is a murder thing instead of just robbery outside the house. Panayiotou also asks Siyoni what questions he was asked by the police and if they mentioned his name.Panayiotou said to Siyoni he could not be giving money out all the time as he was under investigation and then he gives him about R5 000. Siyoni allegedly recruited the alleged hitman, who was the fourth suspect but he died before the trial began.Jayde was abducted from outside her Kabega Park townhouse complex while waiting for her colleague to give her a lift to Riebeek College Girls High School in Uitenhage, where they both worked as teachers. She was shot dead in a field outside KwaNobuhle and found on April 22. The trial continues.LONDEKA DLAMINI