Former Eskom acting CEO Matshela Koko has been cleared of any wrongdoing by independent investigators Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr and Nkonki Incorporated, according to sources in the power utility.The sources said the report of the investigators have been sitting on the desk of Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown for a while now . The sources also told The New Age that the exoneration of Koko now paves the way for him to succeed Brian Molefe as CEO. The report of the investigators has been on the desk of the minister for a while now. The investigators have cleared Koko of any wrongdoing, a source said. This now makes him the front runner for the CEO s position.He is no doubt the most experienced to lead the organisation. Koko was placed on special leave in March following media reports that his stepdaughter, Koketso Chomo, unduly benefited from contracts awarded by Eskom.According to a Sunday newspaper report, Chomo was a director of Impulse International when it garnered R1bn in contracts from Eskom. Brown said: There s so much public interest in the matter and the credibility of Eskom is at stake and therefore I asked the investigation to be concluded within one month instead of three. The then chairperson of the Eskom board, Ben Ngubane, said the board had a constitutional mandate to investigate the allegations. The objective of the investigation will be to ascertain whether the allegations can be corroborated and/or substantiated by evidence including real and/ or documentary evidence, he said in March. Following the publication of the report, Brown announced that the law firm Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr had been appointed to investigate the allegations levelled against Koko.Despite Brown and Eskom s reticence to confirm the status of the investigation, it is understood that the investigation could find no wrongdoing on Koko s part. The news of Koko s exoneration emerges as Eskom prepares for its annual general meeting (AGM) this Friday. Brown, who is expected to axe the three remaining board members at the AGM, declined to comment on Koko s position.While confirming that the investigation into Koko had been completed, neither Brown or the Eskom board would comment further. This is an Eskom matter, the ministry said, which added that the utility was expected to brief Brown at some stage. Eskom board spokesperson Khulani Qoma confirmed that Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr and Nkonki Incorporated had completed their investigation and submitted their report. I do not want to comment on speculation about the contents of the report, save to say that the board is still considering the report, Qoma said. Brown is expected to dismiss the Eskom board, which comprises acting chairperson Zethembe Khoza and non-executive directors Pat Naidoo, Chwayita Mabude and Giovanni Leonardi today.DENNIS CRUYWAGEN