The real reason behind the recent resignation of education and sport development head of department, Dr Itumeleng Molale, is still unknown.A number of stakeholders, including trade unions, have raised concern over Molale s departure with some suggesting he was forced out.Sentiment was expressed that the working relationship between Molale and his political boss, MEC Sello Lehari, had irretrievably broken down.Others intimated that there were allegations of impropriety levelled against Molale and his resignation would mean he gets off scot-free.However, the department and the provincial government have denied claims that Molale was forced out, indicating that it was a mutual agreement. The department would like to distance itself from rumours making rounds on social media that the department s head of department, Dr Itumeleng Molale, was forced to resign from his position, department spokesperson Freddy Sepeng said. The department would like to indicate that the information circulated was not in any way issued by the department and it does not align itself to the statement. We therefore wish to confirm that Dr Molale resigned voluntarily and will be serving notice until the end of this month.The department would like to thank Dr Molale in advance for his long service in the education sector and wishes him all the best in his future endeavours. Provincial government spokesperson Brian Setswambung also weighed in, saying Molale had served the provincial government with distinction. The North West provincial government wishes to take this opportunity to wish Dr Molale well in his future endeavours. He leaves the department after having worked for 35 years, five of which he served as head of department, 10 as chief director for quality assurance, eight as director for district coordination and the remaining 12 were shared during his experience as a school principal and teacher. Setswambung said Molale s 35 years of unbroken service set the bar for those to follow in public service and served as motivation for those remaining that servicing the public was a calling which they should embrace wholeheartedly. I have served the public sector for a period of 35 years as a teacher, principal, education advisor, director, chief director and head of department. I m grateful to God to leave without a cloud. As I leave, my special thanks goes to the premier, director general and you colleagues. Your support has been invaluable, Molale said.It is understood that Molale could be taking up academic duties.Dr Tutu Faleni of the DA said his party would write to Premier Supra Mahumapelo to request that he disclose a record of the meeting which resulted in the alleged removal of Molale. The DA views the removal of the director general as a desperate move to gain support from the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) for the upcoming ANC elective conference, Faleni said. The DA has been reliably informed that the official who is earmarked to take over Molale s position has strong links with Sadtu and will pave the way for the appointment of Sadtu activists at senior positions within the department. ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za