If Siya Kolisi s classy performance against France proved that the Springboks are on track in reclaiming their lost glory, his post-match interview mapped a way forward that everyone is buying into.This was out in the open when the Boks beat France 37-15 at the Kings Park Stadium in Durban on Saturday to wrap up the three match Test series with a game to spare. The knowledge that the Boks have won the series is not about to slow down Allister Coetzee s men, who will conclude the series at Ellis Park on Saturday. Very seldom do you have soldiers disagreeing with a selfless general who puts in the hard yards and that is what Kolisi is proving to be to the resurgent Springboks.Not only did the flank score a try, set up another and make big tackles worthy of leading any side to victory, he made a big statement that for one s country, it matters not where a player is deployed, but what he brings to the field. The biggest focus for the Boks it would seem has been to improve on their skills set, put their bodies on the line and protect the pride of the Boks jersey. That is one time I felt good (about my performance) after a game at Springbok level since the first year in the Springboks. We work hard on our skills and handling. We have been lacking in those departments and we have been trying to improve. I just love rugby, I used to worry about my position but now I don t care where I play, be it six, seven or eight. We just want this team to do well. The team comes first, Kolisi said. We did not want them to gain any momentum. When we got the chance, we were quick off our feet to bury them. It feels good to win. The focus has always been on us to fix the mistakes we made. We wanted to stick to our systems. We just needed the right attitude. We knew what we wanted to do. We got tested a lot, but we are getting to know each other and we are building a culture. By the time Coenie Oosthuizen came on and scored a massive try, the French knew that their effort would not cut it.They were up against a determined Boks side eager to rectify the mistakes of 2016 and have been doing it while playing enterprising rugby, with the powerful Kolisi at the heart of it all. The Boks returned to Johannesburg yesterday and will today begin preparations for the final Test at Ellis Park.-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage. co.za