In three years there will be about 1 million unfilled coding jobs due to the lack of education.Coding is used to create computer software, apps and websites. Things such as browsers, apps on people s phone, Facebook and websites are all made with code.According to non-profit coding organisation Code4Change, coding has become a universal language and in future navigating the working world without this skill will be challenging, even outside the technology industry.Next month, four South Africans will attempt to set a new team record for the fastest time to complete the nine summits in SA. Not only are the four climbers attempting to set a new team record, their passion and focus can potentially provide an opportunity for pupils to develop a relevant, specific, and crucial skill set through raising funds for Code4Change.The climbers have dedicated their world record attempt to help Code4Change reach 500 schools and 300000 pupils by 2020. We have a country steeped in a rich and varied history, and with an incredible natural beauty to boot. Any reason to explore it is a no brainer. This is a great reason, and a great cause with an incredible bunch of guys. I cannot wait, one of the climbers Alex Harris said.Another climber Adrian Saffy said: I have been searching for an epic adventure that is challenging and tough and to take on the 9 Peaks record attempt with legendary men at a hostile time of year is just that. Doing it for a great cause is the cherry on top. Salvation through suffering is what it boils down to. The first stop for the partners in the #CodeClimber-project is at Zitikeni Secondary School in Tembisa.The expedition leader Tian Liebenberg and his two colleagues will be at the school today.Jonathan Novotny, founder of Code 4 Change, who is developing the coding programmes said they would introduce training during a week-long coding course to eager and excited youths in Tembisa s schools. We are raising R100000 to bring coding to three schools in Gauteng and impact 350 pupils with a fun, basic coding course, while encouraging the start of new coding clubs in these schools, Novotny said.He said they needed the public s support on crowd funding platform Backabuddy in support of the world-class climbers quest and in financing the code cause for the 350 pupils.The four climbers will attempt to reach the peak of nine South African summits in a whirlwind record breaking time.The record breaking adventure to ascend the nine highest summits in SA in aid of education promises to be a pulsating, action-packed adventure. To beat the record, we will have to negotiate the 145km by running almost the equivalent of two Two Oceans marathons in successive days, rest for a day and then complete almost another Two Oceans marathon, Liebenberg said.LILLIAN SELAPISA AND SHONISANI TSHIKIALANGElillians@thenewage.co.za