Southern Stings successfully defeated Free State Crinums in the round-robin format of the Brutal Fruit Netball Premier League, but for the Cape side to repeat that in the quarterfinals will take a lot of hard work.The two sides will go up against each other in a fight for a semifinal spot of the Netball Premier League in the Bloemfontein s Mangaung Indoor Complex tomorrow. Crinums, who are defending champions, didn t have a good start to the season, losing three games in a row, including a 44-35 loss to Stings in Durban. But the Free State outfit did manage to turn their fortunes around and secured a quarterfinal spot by finishing fifth on the log.Stings finished fourth as they narrowly missed the chance of automatic qualification to the semifinals following their defeat to North West Flames at the weekend. The other team in the semis are the Gauteng Jaguars who finished at the top of the table and stand a chance to play their fourth consecutive final in the tournament. But in the past three seasons, their campaign always ended in tears as they lost the battle to Crinums three times in a row.Stings vice-captain and goal defence Juline Rossouw believes her side will need to bring their best game if they are to beat Crinums who have never lost a match in the knockout stage in the past three years of the tournament. The Cape side vice-captain believed Crinums have gone through a lot of positive changes since they last met in Durban. They aren t the same team we played earlier in the competition and a team on the rise. That is how it turned out and we simply need to be ready for them. It can be done, Rossouw said. Crinums will go into the match with the advantage of playing in front of their supporters as they are the hosts. The Crinums aren t a team you want to play in Bloemfontein in a knockout clash, Rossouw said.The winner of the match will play for a final spot against the Flames while Jaguars will come up against the winner of the other quarterfinal between the Gauteng Fireballs and Eastern Cape Aloes. If the Crinums fail to make it through to the next round, that will mean the Premier League title will be won by a different team for the first time. The Free State team are the only side to win the title since the inception of the tournament in 2014.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za