Cosatu yesterday cautioned ANC leagues supporting former Africa Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma for the ANC presidency against thinking their presidential hopeful had one-up on deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa.Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said he was not convinced that Tuesday s announcement by the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) to officially endorse Dlamini Zuma for the ANC presidency enjoyed the full support of league members across the length and breadth of the country.He said there were those within the rank and file of the MK Veterans Association (MKMVA) who harboured views contrary to their organisations position on who should lead the ANC after its December elective conference. There is a soft underbelly of those who were not convinced of the debate. They are open to persuasion because there will be a secret ballot at the conference. We will lobby those who subject themselves to democratic centralism. They don t have to rebel publicly, you can cast your secret ballot, Pamla said.Pamla s comments come on the back of the ANCYL pronouncing Dlamini Zuma as its choice candidate to succeed President Jacob Zuma following its extended national executive committee (NEC) meeting at the weekend. The ANCYL is the third ANC structure after the women s league and MKMVA to throw its weight behind Dlamini-Zuma.However, shortly before the league s NEC gathering in Irene, Pretoria, ANCYL NEC member Thembi Siweya said on Facebook that she viewed Ramaphosa as her preferred candidate to lead the governing party.Pamla said Cosatu would now work towards unleashing its members in ANC branches to lobby ANC structures to throw in their lot with Ramaphosa. The ANC is a contested broad church and Cosatu represents a structure which will contest from the inside. We have a significant number of shop stewards who are members of the ANC. We believe that we can go that far. We know the lobbying process and we ll go to the conference having lobbied a number of people. Pamla, describing the league s press briefing on Tuesday as a publicity stunt, said its announcement on Dlamini Zuma was much ado about nothing as the league had already been campaigning for her before the ANC even opened its succession debate. Nothing has changed. The balance of forces have not changed. These people have already been holding rallies and memorial lectures for their candidate. It s a propaganda stunt so the announcement is a non-issue. Those in charge of ANC structures have been gate-keeping, ensuring that they muzzle their own structures with different views. There s no reason why we should be concerned. We took our decision knowing that they support Dlamini Zuma. We knew who the premier league supports. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za