Death in its uncanny ways has steadily and relentlessly been stalking a veteran journalist attached to The Star s Business Report. Eerily it eventually cornered and killed him last Friday, bringing to a screeching halt the excruciating pain of cancer that he had to endure for a good while.Now the great and bookish Wiseman Khuzwayo has joined eternity. Should we be sad or grumpy about his death?There was another great man who lived in the first century of our common era (CE) and perhaps not as bookish as Wiseman, but most wisely a Nazarene. When his friend, Lazarus died, we are told by the ancient scripture writers that his eyes welled with buckets of tears for he loved his friend dearly. And so we too are deeply touched by this sad loss, for we loved Wiseman dearly.The Bard in his wise ways, reminds humankind that death is a necessary end, and that it will come when it will come . And so it has come to our dear buddy Wiseman.I met him donkey s years ago by some strange coincidence at one of the busiest train stations in the world London s Victoria Station. It was, as I think about it today, somewhat strange that we had to meet on Ash Wednesday.I had, almost an hour earlier before we met, ashes imposed on my forehead as is the tradition for Catholics and Anglicans at the onset of Lent. I had heard on this day the priest using the words of the liturgy: Remember you are dust and to dust you shall return. And my new friend Wiseman Khuzwayo recognised I was a South African as he must have overheard me engaged in conversation with a South African priest who happened to be in London on that occasion.Wisey, as he was known to his friends and colleagues, embraced me with a full-bodied bear hug, expressing his joy at having met a fellow South African conversing in Xhosa in the land of the English.That formed our friendship, albeit a casual one, as later in life we did not meet as often as we should have.We would on rare occasions bump into one another in a number of places, including funeral services and exchange pleasantries and banters, ventilating to one another our disappointments about our democracy that had turned out to be a democracy in which the powerful enrich themselves with the poor having to scrounge for scraps at the royal purple table.Of course he would not forget to take a dig at me and have a great laugh about the ashen cross traced and imposed on my forehead by the priest, wondering about the significance of it all. What was the significance of those dark-grey ashes I saw on your forehead that day when we first met in London many years ago? I replied: It is a symbol that jolts us to the reality that we are not permanent residents of this world and that one day we will have to join our mMaker and our ancestors in the world of the dead. And that is why the priest uses those words, Remember you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Heavy words of the Christian liturgy these are. They remind us that we are mere mortals, vulnerable to the vicissitudes of life and that at the right time we shall become dust of the earth, joining eternity and becoming part of it.Today as we bid him his final earthly farewell, we have to give thanks to God for his life and the wisdom and all the perspectives he shared with us. He wanted to be a lawyer and pursued a law degree at the University of Zululand in the 1970s.It never happened, as it never happened with many young men and women of his era who sought to further their studies, but were also concerned about the political, social and economic injustices in their land.Many joined the peoples armies in various foreign countries and others went into exile as Wiseman did, to hide away from the wrath of oppression.At the parish of St Martin-in-the Fields at Trafalgar Square in London, where I had the Ash Wednesday ashes imposed on my forehead, many South African exiles went there for spiritual sustenance.The homilies that are preached from its pulpit are homilies of liberation from the chains of oppression and injustices of any form. The church was abuzz with exiles from other oppressive regimes of the world.It was and continues to this day to be a sanctuary for the oppressed and the downtrodden.Often whenever I met him on those rare occasions that we would meet, he would, among other things, say: Remember St Martin-in-the-Fields. Never deviate from its teachings, and always seek to pursue justice at all time. Jesus wept at the death of his friend Lazarus. Wiseman was a friend to many, the rich and the poor.He wrote incisively as a journalist and through his pen became a source of information and knowledge to many, here and in other parts of the world.The words Remember you are dust and to dust you shall return came flooding back when I learnt about Wiseman s death last Friday. I wept for this grand 63-year-old wise man who departed this world to join eternity.Like Jesus who wept for his dead friend Lazarus, we too weep for you, Wiseman, our dear buddy and colleague.Requeiscat in pace. Lala ngoxolo Wiseman. Jo-Mangaliso Mdhlela writer, social commentator and TNA/ANN7 Media Academy tutor JO-MANGALISO MDHLELA