Public Service and Administration Minister, Faith Muthambi donated soccer kits and soccer balls to community of Ramatlabama village, outside Mahikeng on Sunday.Muthambi organised a soccer tournament in the area to bring about social cohesion particularly among youths in the community.Once there is unity, Muthambi said that it would be easy for the government to address socio-economic issues affecting the community. We visited the area in April and they engaged with us. We received a profile of this community and that was a concern to me. I ve realised that there are no recreation centres that keep young people busy here. Most of the youth indulge in alcohol and drugs abuse hence we brought after-care programme. We need to use sport as a tool to encourage them to re-build their lives. We also encourage them to live a healthy lifestyle and ensure that they progress in life. Stars were born and made from dusty streets, so the youth cannot let their condition to deter them, Muthambi said.She further encouraged other stakeholders to come on board and assist the government to change the lives of the masses.Muthambi said the government cannot win the fight alone. We need to address treble challenges and we urge private sector to support us. We also took the opportunity to talk to boys and men in addressing femicide that has erupted across the country. Young boys and men need to treat women and young girls with respect. Traditionally, men are providers and protectors, so the message needs to inculcate to men to change their behaviour towards women. South Africa has made good progress in building social cohesion and promoting a new single national identity, although work is still continuing in this regard, she said.Mavu Sport Development organisation director, Bram Van Wijck said: Sport plays a pivotal role in increasing social cohesion. It also addresses unemployment, inequality and poverty in society. Our aim is to groom youngsters, players and coaches. We have embarked on this mission since 2011 and we are now operating in five provinces across the country. Our focus is mostly in remote areas where we target the youth from deprived backgrounds. We have realised that the main cause of challenges within societies is boredom. Wijck said youth end up in sexual indulgence, drugs, alcohol and crime because there is lack of leisure especially in villages. They engage in things that society does not want. However, we offering programme that they can develop their life skills from and eventually become community leaders, he said.Batloung Tribal Authority leader, Chief Shole Shole said: Sport has been a unifying force in South Africa. A dedicated focus was placed on transforming this sector to increase and ensure equitable access to sporting opportunities. The initiative will unite the society and strengthen the glue that keeps this community together by fostering an overarching national identity and a spirit of camaraderie. The events like this also contribute significantly towards developing areas as a tourist destination. A local team called Miga FC won the Manyedi Tournament after beating Ikopeleng United FC 4-2 on penalties.Miga FC captain, Kabelo Molefe said: We highly appreciate the contribution brought forward by minister. We believe that donations will go a long way and assist us positively to improve our living standard. We have no sponsorships and it is difficult to play soccer in these conditions. The losing side, Ikopeleng United FC s captain, Kamogelo Kamanyane, 22 said: We played our hearts out and we hope the tournament will give us the necessary exposure. We would like to see many tournaments like this taking place to give us a platform to display our talents. Newsnote-OBAKENG MAJE