Playing for your country is regarded as the highest honour sport can bestow, but futile friendly matches, such as in Rustenburg tonight, fly in the face of this long-held belief.With the season closed and no international fixture close by, it s hard to figure out exactly what purpose the chore against Zambia will serve Bafana Bafana except, of course, an opportunity for coaches to hand new caps to debutants. The principle is that friendly games are essential for developing the understanding, bonding and cohesion of players from different clubs into a national team setup, as the reality of the modern game makes it difficult for players to have more international matches.As a national team coach, the over-riding priority has obviously changed for Stuart Baxter, who will certainly appreciate more time with his players in camp. Bafana will return to the pitch as they host the Chipolopolo in a friendly at Moruleng Stadium tonight, with Baxter expected to field a second-string side for the exercise. This is partly due to the impressive win against Nigeria, which has certainly come at a price after a few players picked up knocks in the crunch duel.With defender Eric Tower Mathoho having being ruled out due to a shoulder injury, Lorenzo Gordinho will be expected to earn his maiden Bafana cap, alongside Rivaldo Coetzee, who should replace skipper Thulani Hlatshwayo in the heart of defence. Tower will be out, partly because he had concussion before he came on camp and then he also had a smack on his shoulder, Baxter said. So we ll have a young pairing. Captain Hlatshwayo will be on the bench. I can give you that much. We ll have Lorenzo and Rivaldo. It will be an interesting pairing, playing against a strong Zambia team. Can they cope? We ll see. Tokelo Rantie, scorer in the 2-0 win against Nigeria, will sit out the match with an injury, as will the injured duo of Themba Zwane and Keagan Dolly.This could open opportunities up front for Thamsanqa Gabuza and Kermit Erasmus, who, however, has to pass a late fitness test. Zambia are by no means minors on the continent and will need to win the friendly to lift their spirit, coming into the match on a back of a shock 1-0 defeat to Mozambique. The two sides will be meeting for the 18th time, the last match having ended in a 1-0 victory in favour of the South Africans.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za