THE National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) president, Mzwandile Makwayiba, said yesterday that he had high hopes of returning to the helm of the union as its 11th national congress kicks off in Boksburg today.Makwayiba said that he would be standing for re-election as Nehawu president amid corridor talks of a change of guard at the helm of the union. Yes, I m standing as Nehawu president. In October last year I was elected the president of the World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) and for me to continue I need to be a leader here in the country, he said.Makwayiba s comments come against the background of the position of Nehawu president and general secretary being reportedly up for grabs.While it is believed that deputy general secretary Zola Sapheta will be contesting incumbent general secretary Bereng Sokwe, deputy-president Mike Shingange will be contesting Makwayiba for the position of president.Makwayiba said that he was confident of his presidential prospects. I have not been told that there is any other thing going on around the position of president but you can never know what is going to happen at the conference, he said.Makwayiba also shared his reflections on Nehawu being one of the most vocal Cosatu unions in its support for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa taking over the ANC presidency. It is for this that he said Ramaphosa s scheduled keynote address today would be one of many platforms Cosatu unions would avail for Ramaphosa to assert his ANC presidential ambitions. We did the same for the current president (President Jacob Zuma) and we expect the attitude to be the same. We also expect other unions to create platforms so that the deputy president can address workers. We will also encourage and influence other unions to do the same so that our candidate can emerge as ANC president in December. With Nehawu being the first Cosatu union to publicly break ranks with Zuma by asking him to resign last year in November, Makwayiba said the union s position on Zuma remained unchanged. The union has a position that the president must step down so that the deputy president can take over. Makwayiba said the union would be keeping a watchful eye on the ANC s upcoming national policy conference. We would like to see policies that the bias in favour of our own class, workers. The alliance is terrain of struggle, so we must protect our interests, he said.However, Nehawu deputy president Mike Shingange said that he would not be contesting Makwayiba for the union s top post. No, I am not contesting, I am staying where I am, he said.BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za