ANC deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa has taken a swipe at factionalism while calling for party unity and a different kind of leadership. Speaking in Stellenbosch yesterday, he hit out at factionalism. If we don t address that, the policies that you are going to adopt are not going to be effectively implemented. We need to demonstrate our willingness to get rid of factionalism in our ranks. In his speech to the Western Cape provincial general council, he stressed that the gathering was about policy. But Ramaphosa, who is emerging as a strong contender to replace Jacob Zuma as ANC president in December, also spoke about leadership defects. Even as leaders when we behave in a particular way we must always know that our behaviour is going to be looked at by the people of South Africa and not only the ANC. He said that when leaders did wrong in word and in deed they must know that impacted on South Africans. You are not only behaving badly for you and your people. You are impacting the people of South Africa. He called for a programme of trust building. They (supporters) want to see us stop fighting among ourselves.They want to see poor leadership coming to an end. People, he said, were saying: The leaders you put in certain positions please address it. They are also saying the issue of money politics please bring it to an end. These are people who love the ANC. These people love the ANC and called for an end to infighting so that the party could regain its position and legitimacy. So that its love affair with our people can be regained. They want their love back. That s what our people want. There was no reason why the ANC should be divided. There was no divide on ideology, only differences on issues of leadership, money and corruption. We should put those things aside and say we are going to be united because the ANC has a big task ahead that is to unite our people. The moral authority that the ANC has wielded for many years should be regained. We should become an organisation of great integrity. Ramaphosa also spoke out against being reckless with the economy, called for pro-poor policies, a stronger and more united tripartite alliance, change in the structure of the economy, accelerated land distribution and job creation. To create jobs we need an economy that will grow at a faster pace than it has done for the past few years, he said.He urged delegates to go beyond slogans and look at how to expand social benefits. More and more of our people need protection. Who else will protect them other than the ANC? Social protection becomes an important issue.We should look at this conference at a comprehensive social protection system. Of the economy, he said: When we manage the economy we must not be reckless. New things such as sovereign credit ratings are things we should be concerned about.We must be prudent with how we manage this economy. Junk status is bad for our country. These things comrades we need to come up with innovative ideas. Ramaphosa also called for the ANC to listen to the counsel of its veterans. I would like our veterans to participate in our policy conference particularly on the two days that have been set aside. I want the veterans to take part and tell truth to the leadership. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN