One of the most famous races in the world, the Comrades Marathon, is upon us. Running through the valleys and hills of the coastal province under the baking sun is certainly no child s play, but a huge commitment.Sports Writer Kgomotso Sethusha picks a few tips for the Comrades hopefuls who will take the ultimate endurance test on Sunday.1. With three days to go the race, there is no more training to be done. At this stage it s about recovery and getting stronger for the big day. And one of the best ways to build up confidence to finish the ultra marathon is to ensure thorough preparation, covering all the bases.2. It is not only about getting physically stronger, but also about mental fortitude. Two key benefits of the mental preparation are to build your confidence and to prepare for the things that could go right and wrong in the race. Visualising your run in the race helps you develop a race-day strategy, allowing you to see yourself achieving your goal.3. The race starts at 5.30am so having the right kit is really important. Ideally, you should wear something warm at the start an old long-sleeved T-shirt that you can give away on the route. During the last week, put everything you need to one side so that you know all is ready for the night before the race.4. Race day is no different from any other day as runners are used to eating and drinking at regular intervals throughout the day. The same applies on race day, especially when you are out there for more than six hours. Although the top runners manage to survive on carbohydrates, the majority of runners may need to plan for more than nine hours of continuous exercise and need something more substantial to eat along the way.5. Once the frenzied start settles, pick a group of experienced runners telling from the colour of the race numbers how many times they have finished and stay with them. The veterans know the route, the endurance required and when to go faster and slower. Learn from them.6. The Comrades has about a 50% drop-out rate because a lot of runners aren t fast enough to finish. This is also mainly due to runners stopping too often along the route for a massage, to greet friends and wallow in the race excitement. Runners need to be moving forward all the time. When you add up all the quick stops , actually you only have about 11:20 running time.7. There is no such thing as an easy Comrades Marathon. The race is tough, it hurts and it s the ultimate human race, after all.8. For most runners, it is an adventure of the mind, body and soul. It s a wonderful fulfilment of a dream turned into reality and it is worth the trouble.-kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za