THE ANC yesterday moved to diffuse tensions between it and its alliance partners. A two-day alliance political council which was scheduled to kick off yesterday was postponed to allow the ANC to engage Cosatu, the SACP and Sanco in bilateral discussions this week.ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe confirmed to The New Age that the ruling party opted for bilateral meetings due to the tense political climate engulfing the alliance. We said the alliance political council must be preceded by a bilateral, the environment is too political, Mantashe said. He said that the bilateral discussions would span for at least two weeks before completion. We must be finished within two weeks. This latest move comes against mounting criticism of the ANC by its alliance partners. In an unprecedented move last week, Cosatu s central committee resolved to ban President Jacob Zuma from participating in any of the trade union federation s activities.This decision is informed by Cosatu s support for calls for Zuma to step down as president. However, the SACP in its post central committee media briefing in Johannesburg yesterday, condemned the ANC for flip-flopping at the 11th hour on the matter.SACP deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila, said that while the ANC made a last minute additional change by opting for bilateral discussions, only an alliance political council would be able to confront matters besetting the ANC-led tripartite alliance head on. We have been having a lot of bilaterals but it s not good enough to hide behind bilaterals, Mapaila said. The country is burning, we have serious problems of corporate capture of the state. That is concerning and we want this alliance political council, it s a matter we cannot avoid. SACP deputy general secretary Jeremy Cronin also entered the fray.He said that he was concerned that such a matter at a pivotal moment in the alliance took a back seat. We are concerned that it is being postponed. We can confirm that we intended to have a hard discussion at the political council. We don t want a political council that is just about niceties and side issues. SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande also called the ANC s ability to lead the alliance into question.He warned that the ANC was heading towards electoral defeat at the 2019 general elections. At this rate of decline the ANC may not retain its electoral majority in 2019 and further organisational fragmentation cannot be ruled out, Nzimande said.BONOLO SELEBANO