Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has heaped lavish praise on President Jacob Zuma as a leader who had been recognised as such on the African continent.While supporting the president in Parliament yesterday, Ramaphosa evaded a direct question from DA member of Parliament (MP) David Maynier on whether the president of South Africa should step down.Ramaphosa spoke in favour of ethical leadership and integrity, which could influence young people. He also condemned violence against women and children and came out in support of a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture while answering questions in the National Assembly.He said allegations of criminal conduct should also be investigated by the relevant authorities. He also assured state pensioners that their money was safe and well-managed.Ramaphosa came to Zuma s defence when DA MP John Cardo asked him if he regarded the president as a selfless leader. He said Zuma had been honoured to chair the infrastructural development of the continent. I think, let us give due regard and respect where it s due. Where it is due, let us give it, Ramaphosa said. Cardo might condemn Zuma for a whole number of things but I think we should also focus on what our country has achieved. It has achieved a phenomenal amount of progress. African leaders have recognised this achievement and have made him the champion of infrastructure development on the continent. Ramaphosa decried state capture as being abhorrent and something that South Africans should not tolerate. A judicial commission of inquiry, Ramaphosa said, was one of the urgent steps that could probe the corporate capture of the state.He told ANC MP Mondli Gungubele that Zuma had the constitutional power to appoint such a body. The president was not opposed to a commission of inquiry into state capture.Zuma was talking to his lawyers on how to give effect to this, the deputy president said.The proposed inquiry had not received rejection from any quarter. All that had to be done was that the modalities had to be set to have it appointed.Allegations of state capture, Ramaphosa said, were made in the public domain. Much evidence had also been published about the undue influence of some individuals.Ramaphosa said the ruling party was not trying to drag out the process, which he said, was to be a focused one. In his view the ANC wants it to happen as quickly as possible . Once you have a judicial commission of inquiry, you are elevating this whole investigation of state capture. You re putting it in the hands of a body that is independent. This body would also come out with the truth. The terms of reference would guide what the inquiry would do, he said. We hope and trust the terms will be focused and broad enough so that the whole issue of state capture is investigated in all its ramifications and the truth come out. Those who had been fingered, he said, should in a fair manner be able to give evidence. People against whom allegations were made would also have the opportunity to clear their names.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za