Delegates attending the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union s (Nehawu s) 11th national congress yesterday have been told to discuss the granular detail of the SACP s prospects of contesting state power in the 2019 general elections.Giving his opening remarks to the unions national congress in Boksburg, Nehawu president Mzwandile Makwayiba told delegates they should discuss the mechanics of the SACP s 2005 special national congress resolution.He said if the ANC dropped the ball on leading the tripartite alliance, then the ruling party should hand over the governing baton to its alliance partners. There s a debate that we must strengthen the SACP, we must reposition the alliance, how? He said the SACP s upcoming national congress had it all to do to chart a path towards achieving its aspirations of running in the 2019 polls.Makwayiba said much rested on the SACP s shoulders as the ANC was failing on its governance scorecard. Let s go and debate. Let s take the English out of it and discuss real issues, Makwayiba said.His comments come as the ANC is gearing up for its much-anticipated national policy conference on Friday. The governing party s policy indaba comes amid heightened tensions within the ANC-led tripartite alliance over its succession battle that has pitted Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and the former African Union (AU) chair Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma against each other in the race for the ANC presidency.Makwayiba called on the ANC to reverse its downward spiral that saw it lose its grip on the country s major metros in last year s local government elections. The ANC of Luthuli needs to take back the municipalities in Nelson Mandela Bay, Tshwane and Johannesburg. The ANC must stop imposing its candidates on people. From now up until December, we must build an ANC that must not see contestation. Makwayiba also gave an ominous warning to the ANC, saying if it failed to get its house in order, electoral defeat would be on the horizon. If the ANC loses power in 2019, who is going to suffer most? It s time that we stop being silent. If you (ANC) fail to lead the organisation, bring it back to us because we know what to do, he said.Makwayiba said that the union was in support of the remedial action contained in public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane s report on the apartheid era bailout of Bankorp. The Reserve Bank must change, Absa owes money. The Reserve Bank must change because it must improve our lives, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za