Facebook activated its safety check feature for those in Cape Town following the storm which battered the city last week. This is after thousands of people were displaced due to flooding resulting in eight fatalities, countless uprooted trees and damage to properties.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said the move was to share real-time data to help respond after natural disasters. When there s a flood, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, response organisations need accurate information quickly about where people are in order to save lives. The problem is that when traditional communication channels like phone lines are down, it can take too much time to figure out where people need help, Zuckerberg said. As more people connected on Facebook it would be easy to share insights to help organisations understand who s in danger, who s safe and where to send resources. This is part of creating safe communities and we will keep doing more initiatives like this to help, he said. Some Facebook users felt that the safety check was a good initiative that helped them ease panic. Good to see that my Facebook friends in Cape are safe. May they continue to like and comment on my status updates, Kay MacDonald said.Meanwhile, people around Knysna felt that a safety check was also needed for them as the town was burning. Hi Everyone, Knysna needs our help. Facebook only creates a safety check if many talk about this disaster. As you know a safety check was automatically created for Cape storm. Knysna and surrounding areas in big trouble tonight with the town now being evacuated. Cell and tel lines are all down and people need to contact their families.Let s all try and flood FB and call on FB to create a #SafetyCheck for #KnysnaFire #KnysnaFires #SouthernCapeFire, Marinda Vivier said. Some said what was happening in Knysna was more devastating than in Cape Town. The storm in Cape Town was long overdue and scary, I agree, but the Knysna fire is terrifying and has overwhelmed the town.Many family and friends struggled yesterday and through the night losing their homes, pets, history and their way of life. It seems that everyone I have spoken to in the past 18 hours knows someone who lost something. I cannot even imagine the terror the people in the neighbouring township must have gone through.We are far away and feeling a bit useless so this is my most immediate way of trying to help, please share, friends, Tamarin Gerriety said. Facebook first rolled out Safety Check in 2014, motivated by Facebook users behaviour after the 2011 tsunami.-INDIE BOYCE|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za