Bafana Bafana star Lebogang Phiri has described how he went mental as he opened up about the pain of missing out on the Rio Olympics. Omitted from the national U-23 Olympics squad last August, Phiri was left shattered as he watched the Games from his home in Denmark.This was after his Danish club Brondby refused to release him for the Games in Brazil, robbing him of a priceless opportunity to grace the world s foremost sports competition. It was a tough period for me when I realised my name was on the list but the club would not release me. I went a bit mental at the club because this was a once in a lifetime opportunity, Phiri said. I had spoken to the sports director, to the coach and told them this was the only chance I had to play in the Olympics and also I had a year left on my contract and for me to get a better contract elsewhere in Europe and make a bit of a sale for the club, I felt the Olympics was the best platform for me to showcase my talent. It was tough, really, really tough. Of course, I wish there could be another chance for me to play in the Olympics some day.But I was happy for the boys who went there because it was a really good platform for South African football. He recently signed with French Ligue 1 side Guingamp, but as far as Olympic ambition goes, Phiri may never get to realise it as he turns 23 in November. But he could travel to Japan for the next 2020 Games as one of the three overage players, provided South Africa qualify for the tournament What he can control, though, is his destiny in the 2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers.Phiri, who was born in Alexandra, Johannesburg, is now part of the senior Bafana side, having replaced injured Kamohelo Mokotjo in Stuart Baxter s team. He flew out to Nigeria with the squad for the Afcon qualifier this weekend and could be looking to add to his solitary cap, earned in the 2016 Cosafa Cup against Lesotho. I would love to see my country qualifying for the two tournaments because it s a big stage for all the players. Once you qualify for major tournaments many doors open. It s also very important for us to qualify and I have a strong belief that we will do so as I see we have a great bunch of players. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za