THE Gauteng social development department says an increase in the number of children abandoned in the province was worrying.Spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said that thousands of children were taken care of in registered centres due to child neglect. About 13 250 children stay in registered child and youth care centres, he said. Close to half of the children, 45%, are admitted to registered child and youth care centres because of abandonment or neglect.These children can be placed in foster care, in a children s home, in a school of industry or back into the parents or guardians care, under the supervision of a social worker. Orphaned and abandoned children may also be adopted, he said.He said that the department was unsure about the number of unregistered centres operating across the province. The majority of unwanted children are newborn babies. The Door of Hope organisation has been rescuing abandoned babies in and around Johannesburg through its Baby Bin, a hole built into in the wall.The organisation which has been operating for the past 17 years, has three houses used to accommodate unwanted babies. Mothers who do not want their babies are able to leave them in the box without explaining anything.Francinah Phago, a baby home manager at the Door of Hope s Berea house in Johannesburg said: Some babies come through the hole in the wall. The unknown person will place the baby in the box and a sensor will go off in the house to alert those are who working that a baby has been placed.We will go to the camera screen and check what is happening in the box. If a baby has been placed, we then rush to collect it and the admission process will begin. Phago said babies found in the streets, toilets and abandoned in hospitals were also taken in. We also have mothers who will come through and we get our social workers to counsel them. The police also bring in babies who have been found abandoned in parks, in the toilets, on the side of the road. Other babies we receive are from hospitals, she said.Phago said the organisation accommodated babies under the age of two. In this house, we accommodate 19 babies. They are all under the age of two years, the oldest is 19 months and the youngest is two and a half weeks, Phago said.Xaba cited teenage pregnancies and high levels of unemployment as some of the contributary factors behind child neglect in the province.He said the department had introduced skills and development and teenage pregnancy awareness programmes targeting young mothers in a bid to discourage them from abandoning their babies.ZODIDI MHLANA