Sprinting sensation Akani Simbine has backed himself to better his sub-10 seconds record when he lines up at the Adidas Boost Boston Games early this morning.The South African will face a fresh challenge when he comes up against closed books Americans Deondre Batson and Clayton Vaughn as well as Keston Bledman of Trinidad and Tobago, in the 100m dash. The trio have run sub-10s as well, Batson boasting a best time of 9.94s Bledman (9.86s) and Vaughn a best time of 9.93s. Yet their impressive times have done little to faze Simbine, who ran his sixth sub-10s of the season at the Diamond League in Doha last month. Every time I step onto the track I am racing to win. It does not matter whether I am competing against Usain Bolt, Justin Gatlin or Andre de Grasse I want to beat them. I have got the confidence now to say these words and to back myself up in doing so, Simbine said. Any athlete likes to set themselves specific goals and then go about achieving them. So far this season I have been able to do what I set out to do.The fact that I am now so consistently able to run sub-10 seconds times in the 100 metres proves that I am on the right track. At the 2016 Rio Olympics, Simbine finished fifth behind the world s finest athletes in Bolt, another Jamaican Yohan Blake, former world champion Gatlin and Canadian De Grasse. The South African 100m star, with a time of 9.94 seconds, was just .01 shy of Jamaican Blake and .03 off De Grasse, while Gatlin came in second behind sprinting legend Bolt. But it was his time more than his fifth-place finish which caught the eye.He hasn t looked back since and has gone on to dazzle on the track in local events as he confirmed his potential as one of the brightest sprinters worthy of his place among the fastest in the world. He will kick start his overseas season with the Boston race, competing on an elevated straight track constructed between Boston Common and the Public Garden. Olympic gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk will run the 200m at the meet.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za