Grade 12 pupils looking to obtain their National Senior Certificate (NSC) after a failed first attempt will get only one opportunity to try again as opposed to two, as it was before.The Basic Education Department said it was looking at changing the present system as it was not yielding the desired results. The examinations are not serving their intended purpose. Pupils who write the supplementary exams are unable to get admission to higher education institutions in the year they write these examinations, national examinations and assessment head Dr Rufus Poliah said. There is a large percentage of no-shows followed by poor performance in the supplementary examinations. We therefore want to reduce the Grade 12 national examination opportunities from three to two. Poliah said no candidates would be disadvantaged as a result of the proposed changes.The department revealed this while briefing the portfolio committee on basic education in Parliament.The 2016 NSC supplementary examinations took place from February 22 to March 31 and saw 76760 candidates writing 116 question papers at 6326 examination centres across the country. The supplementary exams are considered a second sitting of the November 2016 NSC examinations. The consolidation of the performance in the November 2016 and February 2017 exams provide a complete picture of the overall performance of the class of 2016, department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said. The supplementary examinations allow candidates, who did not meet the NSC requirements by one to three subjects during the November examinations, a second chance at obtaining their NSC qualification. The department expressed concern that the participation rate in supplementary exams remained low. More than 123000 candidates enrolled for the February 2017 examinations but only 76 000 actually wrote.Mhlanga said the department had been monitoring the patterns for a number of years and despite several attempts to improve the participation rate, no changes had taken place. As a result, the department intends merging the February supplementary examinations with the June national examinations.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za