JIHADISTS crying Allahu Akbar stormed a tourist resort popular with foreigners on the edge of the Malian capital Bamako on Sunday, briefly seizing more than 30 hostages and leaving at least two people dead.The assault on the Kangaba Le Campement resort comes after a similar strike less than two years ago on a luxury hotel in Bamako, which liesin the south of the troubled country. Four assailants were killed by security forces, Mali s security minister said late on Sunday, without specifying if more were on the run.Nearby residents had first reported the attack after hearing shots while smoke billowed into the air, with at least one building ablaze. It is a jihadist attack. Malian special forces intervened, Security Minister Salif Traore said. Two people had been killed, including a Franco-Gabonese.He later told journalists that we have recovered the bodies of two attackers who were killed and were searching for the bodies of two others. We were able to rescue around 36 guests and workers from the resort, including around 15 French nationals and a similar number of Malians, he said.The special forces were supported by UN soldiers and French counterterrorism troops. Mali s army earlier said that one of the attackers was wounded and surrendered his weapon. He also left behind bottles containing some explosive substances , the security ministry said.At least 14 people, both Malians and foreigners, were injured, the ministry said. A witness interviewed on local television, said he saw a man arrive on a motorcycle who started shooting at the crowd followed by two or three people who came in another vehicle.The landlocked west African country has been fighting a jihadist insurgency forseveral years, with Islamist fighters roaming the north and centre of Mali. French President Emmanuel Macron, who isscheduled to visit Bamako on July 2 for a meeting with five Sahel countries, is following the situation very closely , the presidency said on Sunday.Several people rescued at Kangaba said assailants had shouted Allahu Akbar (God is most great) , although no group has yet claimed responsibility. The US embassy in Bamako had warned earlier this month of a possible increased threat of attacks against Western diplomatic missions, places of worship, and other locations in Bamako frequented by Westerners .At a France-Africa summit in Bamako in January, the owner of Kangaba, Herve Depardieu, had complained about the alarming security information given by foreign consulates which seriously disturbs our love of life and our freedoms .A state of emergency has been renewed several times since the Radisson Blu attack, most recently in April when it was extended for six months but attacks are continuing. In 2012, Mali s north fell under the control of jihadist groups linked to al-Qaeda who hijacked an ethnic Tuareg-led rebel uprising, though the Islamists were largely ousted by a French-ledmilitary operation in January 2013.The unrest has continued despite a 2015 peace deal between the government and Tuareg-led rebels offering partial autonomy to the north. AFP