The department of agriculture, land reform and rural development has visited the projects it has funded in the past across the province. Spokesperson Ali Diteme said the department used the week long outreach programme last week to interact with farmers and do oversight in the projects they had assisted. Amid the recession and the economy which is gravitating to a downward spiral, agriculture continues to be the backbone of this economy and the department under the leadership of MEC Norman Shushu continues to live its mandate. We are coordinating the efforts to create a transformed, vibrant agricultural sector for food security and sustainable development, he said.Diteme said it was of importance that the department worked with different stakeholders to ensure that the sector was transformed. The provincial government last week held imbizos in the Frances Baard region where they were visiting projects and engaging with communities.Among the projects the officials from the department visited include Fourie Farm in Pampierstad. Diteme said the farm was transferred to Mapule Fourie which was in the past in a different plot where she was producing lucerne, wheat, groundnuts, maize and vegetables. He said the department was prioritising female farmers in a bid to develop women from previously disadvantaged communities. The total funding for these project has been R6.5m, he said. Diteme said they also visited the award winning project of Warrenton Super Chicken in Magareng local municipality. Warrenton Super Chicken is 21ha in size and has nine chicken houses with the carrying capacity of 9-10000 chickens per house, he said.According to Diteme the project has a big storage shed and three small storages, a kiosk and abattoir among others. Meanwhile African Farmers Association of South Africa provincial representative Sehularo Sehularo said their main point of discussion was transformation in the sector.Sehularo was speaking during the two-day farmers congress in Kimberley between the Red Meat Organisation and comprising predominantly white farmers as well as black farmers. He said there was a lot both organisations could learn from each other and the critical aspect was sharing of ideas. We need transformation in a sense that our black people are still marginalised and opportunities are very limited for them. We are here attending this congress not to finger point at people, but to sit around the table and come up with lasting solutions, because at the end of the day, the challenges we face are the same irrespective of the colour of our skin. Sehularo said they were set to engage the Red Meat Organisation on development purposes and how to tackle the challenges encountered. We have also realised that they are more organised, they have meetings on a weekly basis, while we are still struggling here and there. They need to share some tips with us, he said.Sehularo said the implementation of Agri Parks by the government was meant to level the fields and allow everyone a fair and equal chance. We need to participate in the sector very actively, we need to voice our concerns and challenges. We also need to ask for help where it s needed as black farmers, he said.Sehularo said black farmers needed to come out and participate in the workshops and conferences held so that they could yield information from their counterparts. For example the Red Meat Organisation has organised groups in its areas on the issue of stock theft. It needs to communicate how best to address this challenge in the province, he said. He said there was a lot to learn from.-TIISETSO MANOKO