Excitement among QwaQwa residents is growing ahead of what has been dubbed the biggest boxing tournament in the province.The Mayoral Boxing Tournament will take place at Puthaditjhaba community hall on Saturday evening.The Bloody War tournament, as they call it, will feature 16 boxers from South Africa and other parts of the continent.Boxing promoter Lebo Mahoko said he had decided to take the one day boxing tournament to the poverty stricken town of QwaQwa to fight the rife unemployment in the area.He said they decided to take the tournament to the people, particularly rural areas, where boxing was not often watched live. But the main objective of taking this event there is to show the people in rural areas that with sport you can achieve greater things, Mahoko said. It is also to encourage the youth to take up sport because of the escalating unemployment in the area. It will be the first time for the poverty-stricken, yet one of the biggest townships in the province, to host a boxing tournament. We have over the years observed with great interest the overwhelming talent in rural areas not only in boxing but sport in general and nothing is done about it. So, as promoters we have partnered with the municipality to make sure we unearth raw talent. Mahoko said they would also host boxing clinics and distribute boxing equipment such as punching bags, gloves and a boxing ring to the youth in the area.Topping the bill will be the 10-round bout between France Ramabolu from Virginia and Stanis Apanu from Congo.BSA 2016 female prospect of the year Melissa Muller will face Sandisiwe Gxogxo over six rounds.In the build up bouts, Yomi Shokumbi will battle it out with Lewis Bukasa while Justice Silinga will face up with Kizito Rumamya over six rounds.The four rounds fights will include Mpho Manyakalle against Saul Hlonawe and Serge Kongolo will come face to face with Eric Mulumba.Mahoko said entrance would be free for all the fights and has in the process urged the community of QwaQwa and surrounding areas to come in their numbers. We are particularly elated with this tournament, for the first time as promoters we have decided to take the fights to the people and hopefully they will be inspired. Who knows, one day we might have a champion emerging from this part of the world. Hopefully, the venue will be filled to capacity on the night. We live boxing, we are driven and we bring you the best. We put our boxers first and we bring boxing to the communities. The tournament is scheduled to start at 6pm.MICHAEL TLHAKUDIprovinces@thenewage.co.za