The recent official opening of the expanded The Foschini Group’s (TFG) Prestige Clothing factory in Caledon at a cost of R75m, represents a vote of confidence in the local manufacturing industry. This is the view of Graham Choice, head of design at Prestige Clothing, speaking at the opening event yesterday. TFG is South Africa’s leading retail investor in local textile and clothing production, The company’s local supply chain division comprises TFG Design and TFG Manufacturing. Prestige Clothing Maitland and Prestige Clothing Caledon are two wholly-owned apparel manufacturers which form part of this structure. Choice says: “TFG’s Prestige Clothing is the leader in quick response manufacturing and this latest investment in our manufacturing capacity means that we’ll be able to respond even faster and in greater volumes to our customers’ needs.” He said the recent investment saw the construction of a new building and the refurbishment of the existing factory, including the re-tooling of the entire new facility. In addition, the establishment of a highly effective training school has ensured that more than 300 previously unemployed women have acquired the skills and a national qualification in apparel manufacturing from the department of higher education. This has seen employee numbers grow from only eight in 2008 to 315 today. The combined size of the new factory is now 4000m², up from 900m², with one third of energy needs being provided by solar energy. Additionally, the upgrade invested heavily in employee well-being on site with a range of benefits. “We already produce 6 million garments annually and our investment strategy has enabled us to ensure future scalability and growth. Our layouts, technology, processes and systems are independently recognised as matching and often beating global best practice,” Choice said. He said the company’s focus was on developing its local manufacturing capability and upgrading skills and machinery to continue its substantial competitive advantage locally and globally. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za