Footballers usually start contemplating hanging up their boots in their mid-30s, but at the age of 37 Bidvest Wits goalkeeper Moeneeb Josephs is still going strong.Josephs has played in the Premier Soccer League for two decades and is the most capped PSL player after overtaking Bafana Bafana legends Brian Baloyi and Lucky Lekgwathi two years ago. In the two decades in the top tier, the former Bafana goalie won the league title three times and a number of other trophies. Had he decided to call it time this year, Josephs would have been able to bow out gracefully after winning his third Absa Premiership title, this time with the Clever Boys.But the Mitchells Plain-born shot stopper is not only hungry for more successes but believes he still has a role to play at Wits. I haven t even thought about it (retirement) yet, Josephs said. At the moment I still have a bit to offer, I m not thinking about retiring but just enjoying the game. As long as I have the passion for the game burning in me, I will keep going. He aims to follow in the footsteps of other goalkeepers still active in their late 30s like Gianluigi Buffon, who helped Juventus to the final of the Uefa Champions League at the age of 39. Josephs began his career at Cape Town Spurs after joining the club in 1997.The club was merged with Seven Stars to form Ajax Cape Town two years later. In 2006 he moved to Wits and spent two seasons there before joining Orlando Pirates where he won back to back trebles with the Sea Robbers before returning to Wits four years ago. I m still feeling good, the coach will say when I should stop because I m one of the laziest guys at training, he said with a smile. But as long as I can keep doing what I am doing for the team, continue being a positive influence, I will keep going. And if the coach says, Moeneeb, listen, it s time for you to hang up your boots I think that will be the time to stop. Josephs has won the PSL goalkeeper of the season twice, in 2010 and his last 2015 triumph came two years ago.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za