THULANI Serero could be back for Bafana Bafana for their next camp in August as his prospects of national selection have improved after he joined new club Vitesse Arnhem yesterday. Bafana coach Stuart Baxter said Serero was overlooked for selection into the latest squad due to his inactivity at club level.But things could change for the 27 year old after he found a new working address with the threeyear deal he signed with Dutch Eredivisie side, Vitesse. Serero left Ajax Amsterdam on a free transfer and completed a move to the Arnhem-based club after passing a medical yesterday, ending a frustrating two-year spell at the Dutch giants. Serero will today undergo a medical, and subject thereto will be presented later in the day, Vitesse said.The midfield dynamo is set for Uefa Europa League football next season, with Vitesse having earned a spot in continental football after they finished fifth in the Eredivisie last season. I believe my qualities fit perfectly with Vitesse s style of play. Playing in the Europa League is also a nice challenge for me, said Serero. Banished to the reserves for the season, Serero saw his career regress to the periphery of the lower Dutch league.He played only five games, a total of 450 minutes of competitive football all season, excluding the two World Cup qualifier fixtures for Bafana Bafana. At 27, Serero can still rediscover the form that made him the PSL footballer of the year, player of the season, player s player of the season and young player of the season back in 2011.Baxter explained the decision to omit the South African international, already capped 33 times. I have had contact with him and notified him that I don t think it was fair on him or on the rest of the national squad when he d only had 800 minutes of football at top level over the past year, Baxter said.Meanwhile, Safa president Danny Jordaan has lauded Baxter s winning start to his tenure and could accept Bafana s 2-1 loss in a friendly against Zambia on Tuesday. Baxter s men were brought down to earth, losing to neighbours Zambians on the back of their astounding 2-0 victory over Nigeria in their Afcon qualifier match. I think the coach wanted to give all the other players a chance and many of the players impressed. You ve got to have a good challenge to assemble the squad because the next step is the World Cup qualifiers, Jordaan said.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha