Fuming members of Parliament (MPs) have slammed the South African Police Service (SAPS) for being the worst performing department when it comes to state employees doing business with the state.The charge was made when the SAPS leadership appeared before the Standing Committee on Public Accounts to answer questions about conflicts of interest in the police that were exposed in a report by the auditor-general.Acting national police commissioner Lesetja Mothiba conceded that this was a problem, but pledged that police were serious about stamping it out.DA MP David Ross told him it was clearly visible that the SAPS, in terms of conflict of interest, is not setting an example to the country .Mothiba said: I agree with the auditor-general s findings. However, there are certain loopholes that the organisation is working on. He said police were working on finding a proactive system. In terms of the National Instruction 7 of 2000, we were reactive. We would find that this member was doing business with the state after he had already done it. Now, we think we have enough muscle that can deal with doing business with the state. A SAPS presentation showed an auditor-general survey of members doing business with the department in the 2015-16 financial year that found that 103 officials were trading with the state.Out of this group, 32 have been dealt with through measures such as resignations.Officers involved ranged from the rank of constable to former national police commissioner Riah Phiyega, who was involved with Connex Travel, which the SAPS presentation revealed made R9729.92 in business with police.Names of other businesses involved ranged from Ding Dong Bell Trading and Projects CC to Sky Is The Limit Suppliers to Kubheka s Pride and Khula-Khula Trading.An incredulous IFP MP Mkhuleko Hlengwa said it was open-ended chaos at the SAPS, particularly when those who were in charge were complicit in aiding and abetting.He said: These findings are not new. The national commissioner is implicated. Hlengwa said there was a systematic collapse in the SAPS, which was supposed to be the alpha and omega of law enforcement. He wanted to know how criminals would be pursued if the SAPS was in a shambles.The corruption levels in the SAPS also bothered ANC MP Nyami Booi. He mentioned the case of former deputy national commissioner Lt-Gen Hamilton Hlela who pocketed R1.3bn from kickbacks. There is corruption inside the police. How do you want us to convince the public that you are doing good work? Booi said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za