Nonkululeko Ndebele, 38, has spent the past seven days in hospital trying to make sense of how she survived an attack by three men, who, because they could not rape her, threw her out of a taxi and left her for dead.On the afternoon June 16, she boarded a taxi, a white Quantum, next to a filling station in Roodeport to buy sanitary pads at a mall.There were three men in the taxi along with the driver. One of the men jumped off at Westgate Mall and barely a few minutes later a man who was sitting in the passenger seat jumped into the seat behind the driver where she was sitting. I got frightened, suspecting there was something wrong with him. He instructed me to lie down on the floor of the taxi. I realised that I was being kidnapped, Ndebele said. The man was joined by the other one, they took off my shoes and pulled my pants down with the aim to rape me. One asked if I have been raped before. They noticed that I was on my period, that s when they started assaulting me. Ndebele said the assault lasted about 30 minutes. There was a time where I screamed and attempted to fight, the driver told the guys to give him the gun to shoot and kill me saying that I was making noise. I was at their mercy begging them not to kill me. She said they robbed her of R370 and her cellphone, the driver reduced speed and she was thrown out and landed on her hip. Ndebele said she realised that she was in Witpoortjie west of Johannesburg. I was able to walk and knocked at the gate of one house, the owners did not come out. Neighbours heard and helped me. They called my family, security, ambulance and the police. After an hour the police did not arrive so the ambulance took me to hospital. The New Age visited her at a private hospital in Johannesburg. She said she had lost hope in the SAPS because no case had been opened. She said on Tuesday police officers from Brixton took a statement from her but told her she would have to open a case in Roodepoort where the incident took place. Where I took the taxi, there is a garage, a home affairs office and companies, surely the police can get CCTV footage. If they are serious they can arrest them. Brixton police station commander Col Marius Groenewald said: The officers should have opened a case then transferred it to Roodepoort. NTOMBI NKOSI