After a good start to their CAF Confederations Cup campaign, SuperSport United knew playing against TP Mazembe would be a tough nut to crack. SuperSport held Mazembe to a 2-2 draw at the Stade TP Mazembe in the Democratic Republic of Congo at the weekend.Ben Malango and Rainford Kalaba gave the hosts a 2-0 lead in the first half but United s Aubrey Modiba and Teboho Mokoena made sure the teams shared the spoils. The result means SuperSport move to the top of their group and are tied on five points with Horoya of Guinea. In their first two Group D outings, Matsatsantsa A Pitori played out a draw with Horoya at home while in the second match they recorded a 5-3 victory over CF Mounana.Mazembe are known to give visiting teams a hostile reception and it looked no different for SuperSport. The Tshwane side was not allowed a pitch inspection before their warm ups as they arrived at the stadium and found the gates locked and had to wait before gaining access. Off-field tactics aside, Mazembe are one of the most experienced teams on the continental football scene and SuperSport had their work cut out.The Congolese showed that early, creating their first good scoring opportunity through Malango, who fired over the crossbar from close range. The hosts managed to break the deadlock after 21 minutes after Malango successfully beat Reyaad Pieterse to give his side the lead. Five minutes later, Kalaba made it two for the hosts after beating United s goalkeeper.The South Africans needed a quick response to bring themselves back into the match and that s what Modiba did a minute later by finishing off a good pass from youngster Mokoena. Reneilwe Letsholonyane had a beautiful chance to level matters just before half-time but the veteran midfielder squandered the opportunity and Mazembe went into the break leading. Both sides came back for the second stanza of the match looking determined to make sure they all get something from the match.They all had good chances to score but it was SuperSport who found the back of the net in the 66th minute through a beautiful header from Amajita s Mokoena and brought the Tshwane outfit back into the game. Mokoena, who recently returned from the U-20 Fifa World Cup, connected Thabo Mnyamane s header and gave Mazembe s goalkeeper Sylvain Gbohouo no chance of making a save.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za