PREMIER David Makhura had good news for about 150 NGOs that have been awaiting payment from the Gauteng department of health yesterday. Makhura said the 149 health NGOs which had not been paid for three months will be paid by Friday.Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa had during the question and answer session in the legislature on Tuesday said that the non-payment was pending finalisation of their contracts.Delivering his budget vote at the legislature, Makhura who announced an allocation of R600m to his office, said work was continuing to rebuild confidence in the public healthcare system following the Life Esidimeni tragedy where more than 100 mental health patients lost their lives under circumstances that could have been prevented. I have already called for a complete overhaul of our public health system and we are monitoring carefully the work being done to fix public healthcare in our province. We will not rest until all the problems in our health system are addressed fully, he said.Makhura said Ramokgopa had given full details about the work done to implement the health ombudsman s report and the focus on improving mental health services and turning around the entire public health system in line with the vision of the NHI. We continue to work with the families of those vulnerable citizens who lost their lives under our care.Our ultimate goal is to reach closure and finality on this matter, doing so in a manner that takes into account the wishes of the affected families. In a few weeks from now, Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and I will announce the name of the alternative dispute resolution mediator. This after an extensive process of consultation we have been having with the families and their representatives, Makhura said. When it comes to employment, he said the Tshepo 500000 programme had given more than 350000 young people opportunities to improve their employability.It has now transitioned to Tshepo 1 Million with significantly increased levels of private sector partnership in order to tackle youth unemployment on a larger scale. He said they appreciated the support from the private sector. We are pleased that a larger number of corporates are showing greater interest in opening up opportunities for township enterprises in their value chains and supply chains, he said. Makhura announced that during the month of August, the Gauteng provincial government would focus the eyes of the nation and province on the plight of the girl child and young women. We will launch a major campaign which seeks to highlight their multiple challenges, increased levels of violence and femicide, increasing rate of HIV infections, high rate of pregnancy and school dropout rates and increased vulnerability as a result of lack of economic opportunities. We need a comprehensive multisectoral, multidisciplinary and societal response to the problems facing girl children and young women. I call on all members to join this campaign during Women s Month.Move out of the boardrooms to the streets and be counted, Makhura said. Meanwhile, delivering her budget vote, GPL speaker Ntombi Mekgwe said the budget allocated to the legislature is R674.m this financial year, an increase of R25.3m from 2016-17. NTOMBI NKOSI ntombin@thenewage.co.za