The goal that Mduduzi Mdantsane scored in the 2-1 win over Stellenbosch United in the National First Division promotion play-offs may be enough to offer Baroka FC redemption and a second chance in the PSL. But for the player himself, this was a sign of perse- verance and a chance at finally living a happy life.This is because Mdantsane s childhood was a tough one. His father left him when he was only in Grade 2. Having depended on his mother all his life, everything changed at the age of 15 in Grade 10 at Chief Ampie Mayisa High School in Lesley, Mpumalanga. His mother died and a month later his grandmother also passed away, with his grandfather and two aunts left to take care of him.Instead of giving up, Mdantsane dedicated his life to football, trying his luck at open trials as referrals hardly took place. One of the people who saw him develop his skills was his Grade 9 teacher, Widford Matsebane, who always regarded Mdantsane, then known as Mbonani, as a talented and focused youngster. I taught him social science in Grade 9. He was a diligent pupil, but having coached him at football too, I could see where his focus was. Despite all the struggles he faced, you could not doubt his commitment and dream to make it as a professional footballer, Matsebane said.When it was heard that Mdantsane had signed for Baroka, Matsebane gave him a call to tell him about a certain Kgoloko Thobejane, a coach at Baroka and a former classmate and teammate during their college years in Lebowakgomo. You can say it is fate that I am here. I called Mdu to tell him about Kgoloko. I went to teaching college with him and I played football with him. We called him Screamer . He was a great midfielder.I knew Kgoloko would love Mdu s style of play because he was more or less the same. I was his midfield partner, Matsebane said. For Mdantsane, Ampie Mayisa and the area of Lesley are places he will never forget as they contributed so much to his life. You can say I faced challenges. I don t think you can imagine how tough it was. But with people like Matsebane and everyone at the school, as well as everyone in the community, I got to feel their love.But I will not lie, it was hard without my mom. My grandfather did his best and I am grateful, Mdantsane said. That is why I am staying away from all bad influences. I want to build my grandfather a house and make sure that my family live a good life. I stay next to my old school, so I will go there whenever I can to motivate the youngsters. But my focus now is to establish myself at Baroka and one day play for Bafana Bafana.I never believed in dreams, but now I do and I can be happy because I got support from many people. The player was in Lesley yesterday, but said he would be leaving the area today to travel to Lebowakgomo and continue with the mission of keeping Baroka in the mainstream. Baroka only need a draw against Black Leopards to retain their PSL status.-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za