President Jacob Zuma yesterday cited negotiations and dialogue as the tools to resolve the conflict engulfing the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).Speaking at the Sefako Makgatho presidential guest house in Pretoria after a 30-minute meeting between himself and DRC President Joseph Kabila, Zuma called for a peace-building process in the DRC amid political turmoil over an overdue election that continues to hang in limbo. We gather here at a time when your country is going through a political transition following the December 2016 political agreement. This agreement charted a process that should lead to the next elections. The people of the DRC need to decide their internal political future. The best way to do so is through negotiations and dialogue. We wish to reiterate that dialogue and not conflict is the best way to resolve problems. We wish to assure you of our continued solidarity and support. Zuma s remarks came at a time when a group of DRC nationals yesterday gathered outside the presidential guest house to voice their dissatisfaction with Kabila attending the 10th session of the South Africa-DRC binational commission (BNC).Zuma said the DRC had made progress. The DRC is now politically stable and the security situation has improved. Where there are still challenges, the government of the DRC, with the assistance of the region, continent and international community, is addressing those.Zuma, making reference to the importance of the BNC meeting, said the two heads of state would intensify their efforts in implementing the commission s areas of cooperation. The meeting of the BNC today provides us with the opportunity to assess progress in the implementation of identified projects. I trust that the report from the ministers will set the tone for closer cooperation and signal a strategic approach to address the triple challenges of unemployment, poverty and inequality. We need to strengthen our economic cooperation by increasing trade and investment between our two countries and by enhancing business and people to people cooperation. Guided by the SADC Industrialisation Strategy and AU Agenda 2063, we should be able to consolidate our work and that of the region, Zuma said.Kabila said the DRC was committed to resolving some of the challenges besetting the country. Dialogue in the Congo is permanent, he said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za