People living with albinism say the stigma remains the biggest challenge as they mark International Albinism Awareness Day today.The Albinism Society of South Africa (Assa) has called upon South Africans to raise a flag against the stigmatisation of albinism today.Founder and national director of Assa Nomasonto Mazibuko, said: We are saying people must understand that we are people first before we are people with albinism and they should stop thinking that we are magicians and that our body parts give luck. The stigma goes particularly with the myth that says people with albinism do not die, that their body parts give luck and if you have a sexual intercourse with someone with albinism you are still regarded a virgin. People living with albinism are often kidnapped, brutally killed and their body parts sold. The government has also been lambasted for not doing enough to help those living with the condition. We expect the government to have a programme where they engage with us and try to educate our people about albinism. We also have special needs which need to be catered for by our government, Mokgitaa Motsieloa, who has albinism, said.Despite the UN classifying albinism as a disability, South Africa still does not recognise it as such. I was fortunate enough to be raised by a family who never made me feel that I was in any way different from other kids or people in general. That helped a lot growing up because the self confidence I have, started at home, Simphiwe Tshabala said. It is very important for parents or families to talk about albinism with their children. Also, when you have parents that understand albinism, it makes it easier to talk to your kids and make them understand that they are not any different from any other human being. Amnesty International lambasted the failing criminal system of Malawi on the killings and attacks targeting people with albinism over the past six months. Mazibuko said young people with albinism should not encounter any difficulty getting education, employment skills development and business opportunities and they should enjoy their rights like every South African. Living with albinism is like living with any condition, it s just a matter of taking care of yourself, loving yourself first and educating yourself in order to empower yourself and others, Tshabalala said.Amnesty International said that since January this year at least two people with albinism have been killed while seven more have reported crimes such as attempted murder or abduction.MASEGO TIROnews@thenewage.co.za