The ANC national executive committee (NEC) on International Relations said yesterday the government was still intent on pulling out of the International Criminal Court (ICC), despite a high court ruling putting the breaks on the matter earlier this year.Briefing journalists in Johannesburg, committee chairperson Edna Molewa said despite a Pretoria High Court ruling that halted South Africa s initiated process of withdrawing from the ICC and the government s subsequent decision to revoke its intention to withdraw from the court in the Hague, South Africa s position on the ICC has not changed. The process is going on in government as well as in Parliament to fulfil the mandate of the organisation. Certain things need to happen, to consult with the African Union (AU), discuss the possible amendment of the statute, that work is going on. We are going to be taking South Africa on board as we move on. Molewa s comments come as the ANC-led government is still grappling with the high court decision that ruled its intention to leave the court as irrational and unlawful .She said that despite this, the ANC had no intention of coming back into the fold of the ICC. Molewa said the ANC s 2015 national general council resolutions on international relations, in relation to the governing party s views on the double standards and selective actions of the ICC have not changed. The procedural aspect is what was found against in court. The mandate to withdraw from the ICC is derived from our own structures, the NEC. At this point in time it has not been any review of that mandate, she said.Committee member Maite Nkoana Mashabane was uncompromising in her criticism of the ICC. She called out the court on its double standards in dealing with cases of war crimes. We ve seen Palestinians homes being disposed of and nothing has happened. Palestine is a member of the ICC, and there s no investigation. Afghanistan is another case. At the meetings where we are supposed to discuss these issues, ministers, leaders of countries do not attend those meetings. We re supposed to have annual meetings every year in December. Almost all developing countries do not attend. Mashabane, making reference to Brics nations being keen to establish their own alternative rating agency, said this would soon become a reality. Brics ministers of finance met in India a few months ago and adopted what they are going to present in China at the next Brics summit a proposal that Brics should have their own rating agency. Who are these ratings agencies by the way? We respect them a lot but we also pay to be rated. The last I m told is we pay every year just for them to check if we are alive and in good standing. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za