TWENTY three years after the death of apartheid, a 20-year-old German-born woman, whose father Alpheus Mpikeleli Kubeka, fled into exile, is desperate to connect with her family in South Africa.Melinda Breitkopf, 20, has caused a social media frenzy with scores of South Africans on Facebook trying to help her find the Kubeka family, which she knows nothing about except that her father s mother was called Miriam and the father, Simon. Hello to all the people out there. I need your help. My name is Melinda and I m 20 years old. I live in Germany. I m the girl in the second picture. On the first picture, you can see my father, Alpheus Mpikeleli Kubeka, who died 15 years ago.In 1977, he fled from South Africa to Germany because of apartheid, the young woman wrote on her Facebook wall, tagging a picture of her and her father. The post has been shared more than 500 times and yesterday afternoon, it grabbed the attention of the National Prosecuting Authority s Missing Persons Task Team head Madalein Fullard, who confirmed that Kubeka was a freedom fighter who fled the country. Hi Melinda, perhaps we as the Missing Persons Task Team in the National Prosecuting Authority can help. I have found a reference to your father in the security police photo album of those who went into exile, she said, just before posting a mugshot of Kubeka. It says that he left the country in 1977 and was from Soweto originally. He was born around 1957.That will help in tracing his family. There is a photo of him in the security police photo album. In an interview with The New Age, Breitkopf said when she was young, she told herself that her biggest wish was to get to know her South African side of the family. I only know my German side and there are not many of them, many of them also died and with the others we aren t really connected, she said. I wanted to tell my South African grandma and grandpa and my uncles what happened to their son and brother, and I wanted to let them know that we exist. My father went a long way and experienced so much. So, I always wanted to do something but I was too young. I didn t know how to do it. Now, I am 20 years old and I can t wait no longer to finally find them. That s why I decided to post this on Facebook a few days ago. I wrote the text spontaneously. I didn t think that there would be so much feedback, so fast. The response was so great that there were people who came out and said they knew her father. She has received a positive response from South Africans who shared the post and tagged people who they thought could assist the young woman. Some suggested that he was in the PAC while others suspected that he was a member of MK, the ANC s military wing.Breitkopf said her father left six children in Germany. I know that my dad has four younger brothers and they lived in Johannesburg. The name of his mother is Miriam and the name of his father is Simon, she said. I don t know a lot about the family, because I was five when he died and he didn t tell us a lot of information because his plan was to go back to South Africa when things got better, Breitkopf wrote. She said she created an account in memory of her father in hope that his family is searching for him. We unfortunately have no contact to our family in South Africa, Breitkopf said. We don t even know any of them, and they don t even know that their son or brother died in Germany. I m so sad that they also don t know that we exist. It is so hard for me to live with half of my heart because the other half is somewhere out there in South Africa. The Kubeka family has not been located yet.NTOMBI NKOSI ntombin@thenewage.co.za