The treatment failure rate of HIV positive children and adolescents on antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) stands at 30% in Khayelitsha, Cape Town. This is according to M decins Sans Fronti res/(Doctors Without Borders).MSF decided to launch a treatment failure programme to address this shocking revelation of the rate of kids failing treatment in Site B, Khayelitsha.Mission paediatric doctor at MSF Dr Jonathan Bernheimer said: In 2013 MSF in Khayelitsha looked at the failure rate of HIV positive children and adolescents on antiretroviral drugs. Some previous studies done in South Africa showed that the failure rate for kids was high and MSF certainly found this to be true at Site B in Khayelitsha, where the rate of kids failing in treatment was 30%. Bernheimer said that the treatment intervention aims to establish the reason why kids are failing in treatment, and how to address those barriers.The intervention was a treatment adherence intervention, providing comprehensive adherence counselling and recruitment into patient support groups, both for caregivers and patients.About 176 patients enrolled in the intervention. The patients had a series of appointments, which were scheduled at first every two weeks and then monthly.Both caregivers and children would also go to their support groups, which really work very well. Viral loads of the kids were checked every three months. If you have a high viral load in a child it impacts their neural development, Bernheimer said.HIV crosses the blood/brain barrier and affects the brain directly, so to limit this impact on the child you have to keep viral load in the blood low. Bernheimer said that his organisation found that there were certain barriers to adherence which ranged from confusion on intake of medication to psychosocial reasons.According to Bernheimer, 75% of the time the barrier to treatment adherence was a relatively straightforward misunderstanding about how the child s medication should be administered. Confusion about whether certain medicines can be crushed, or whether it is possible to give a child their medication a few hours late. About 25% of cases were failing in treatment for difficult psycho-social reasons. These might include the absence of a caregiver at home, substance abuse issues, food insecurity. Bernheimer said that many of the patients who were failing their treatment had various challenges. It s difficult for kids to take their medication on a consistent basis. If children get their medication consistently they do very well on it, but it s difficult to get the medication into them. The causes are many and I break them down into patient-related and healthcare-related reasons.Patient-related reasons are all the things to do with the child s psychosocial situation. Healthcare-related issues include medicine stock outs, which still unfortunately happen; healthcare workers not knowing how to engage children in care; and then there are issues to do with the drugs themselves.There is very limited choice when it comes to HIV drugs for kids and one of the major drugs is very unpalatable. All of these things can cause a child to fail in treatment, he said.Keitumetsi Motlhaleprovinces@thenewage.co.za