A GROUP of ANC Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) veterans have dismissed as futile the ruling party s upcoming national policy conference (NPC).MK council leader Siphiwe Nyanda yesterday said the group of MK veterans decided to boycott the ANC s policy conference at the end of the month. He argued that only a national consultative conference would remedy the crisis engulfing the ruling party. The steering committee is of the firm view that the much publicised national policy conference is a costly detraction from requisite efforts to save the ANC. For that reason, the steering committee has decided not to have anything to do with the pending ANC NPC, as we intimated before.We will communicate our plan of action towards saving the ANC after consultations, Nyanda said. Nyanda s comments come as the group of MK veterans and a group of ANC stalwarts and veterans have for months on end been calling for the ANC to convene a national consultative conference, to no avail. The rapidly deepening crisis of confidence in our movement once again confirms the correctness of our view that only a special consultative conference has the possibility to devise interventions that can arrest our downslide. Indeed, our people, members of the ANC and its followers and the broad community of patriotic South Africans must refuse to have our hard-won freedom disappear like a mist under the morning sun. Nyanda, making reference to the tit-for-tat public spat between the MK council and the ANC Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA), said the group of former MK veterans condemned MKMVA s unilateral push to convene national conference.He said the conference would only serve to sow disunity within the MK rank and file. It is against this backdrop that the steering committee wishes to distance itself from the treacherous and divisive decision of the MKMVA NEC. We condemn this intransigence and these self-seeking motives in the strongest terms possible and call on all genuine cadres of the MK, particularly those in leadership roles, to disassociate themselves with this betrayal and ensure that the boastful and noisy characters who have been rewriting our history are exposed and embarrassed. MK leader Thabang Makwetla echoed Nyanda s sentiment on the ANC s policy conference. We are three weeks ahead of the policy conference.There is no way that anything can be done to still get a meaningful two-day consultative conference to take place before that policy conference at the end of month. We are not going to be participating in that conference. The question was directly put to us and the answer was no, Makwetla said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za