Star ultra-distance runner Bongmusa Mthembu dug deep to find inspiration and strategy to win the Comrades Marathon. The strategy worked well for the Nedbank team runner as he bagged his second Comrades win, thus becoming the first South African after Bruce Fordyce to win two Comrades race.The KwaZulu-Natal runner crossed the finishing line with a time of 5:35:34, completing the gruelling 89km up run race from Durban to Pietermaritzburg yesterday. He finished ahead of Zimbabwean Hatiwande Nyamande, who came second in 5:38:46 and fellow South African Gift Kelehe, who finished third (5:41.48). American Camille Herron was the heroine when she bagged the ladies title in a time of 6:27:35, followed in second by Russian Alexandra Morozova while Charne Bosman, the pre-race favourite, finished third. I know what happened for the past two years. I knew that coming into this race and that was my build up, Mthembu said. Look at my time this year. I remembered how I ran in 2015. So I used that as my build up and I m glad with how I ran today. Mthembu also debunked the myth he was a down runner , who would struggle to win the up run race. I didn t prove anyone wrong, Mthembu said. I ve said in previous interviews that those who know me know what happened in the past two up run races. I can t talk much, if the media don t dig deep into our records then they won t find anything but speculation. Mthembu went into the race as one of the favourites, among a list which included Kelehe, David Gatebe, Mike Fokoroni and Ludwick Mamabolo.He saw off some stiff challenges from Gatebe, Mamabolo and another South African, Charles Tjiena, who had led and crossed the halfway mark at Drummond in two hours 47 minutes, before he could open up a comfortable lead. His strategy saw him through to another famous triumph after he first won the 2014 edition. I m glad our strategy worked very well. Credit to my coach Xolani Mabhida, Mthembu said. And credit to all the guys I ran with. All South Africans are there in the top five. It s good for the marathon in our country. I m overwhelmed. While not much talk is made of the money, Mthembu also praised athletics federations for the improved pay cheque in the ultra marathon. I m glad federations, ASA, KZN athletics and our government are all coming to the party, he said. That s what we need so that when we call ourselves professional athletes people can see we are professional athletes. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za