A REPUBLICAN rebellion on Tuesday forced the delay of a Senate vote on the party s healthcare overhaul, an embarrassing setback for US President Donald Trump who was left scrambling to salvage the controversial plan.With the Senate bill delayed until after the July 4 congressional recess, the time line of the effort and the overall viability of a years-long bid to dismantle Barack Obama s Affordable Care Act (ACA) in favour of a Republican replacement was thrown into question.Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell acknowledged he did not have the votes, after a non-partisan forecast projected the bill would swell the ranks of the uninsured by 22 million by 2026 as compared to the present law. We will not be on the bill this week, but we re still working towards getting at least 50 people in a comfortable place, he said in announcing the delay. We re not quite there, but I think we ve got a really good chance of getting there.It ll just take us a little bit longer. McConnell is expected to huddle with his caucus to find ways of tweaking the bill that will placate several legislators who have expressed concerns. The ideological differences between conservatives and moderates within the party were so stark that it was clear the leadership did not even have the 50 votes in the 100-member chamber needed to simply begin debate on the bill. Republicans hold 52 Senate seats.They need at least 50 votes, as VicePresident Mike Pence would break the tie in favour of the measure. But at least nine Republican senators have now said they oppose the bill as it is. After the announcement, Republican senators headed to the White House for an urgent meeting with Trump, who made it clear that the pressure was on. We have to have healthcare and it can t be Obamacare which is melting down, Trump said, as dozens of legislators sat grim-faced around a White House conference table. But he also signalled that there might not be a path forward. This will be great if we get it done. And if we don t get it done it s going to be something that we re not going to like and that s OK, Trump said.The president had similarly intervened in March after House Speaker Paul Ryan was forced to pull the first version of that chamber s plan. A tweaked bill then passed the House, with a handful of Republicans opposing it. But Trump turned around and branded the House bill mean and wanted a Senate bill with more heart .The Senate delay is a huge blow to Republican legislators who have spent the last seven years plotting an end to the ACA, commonly known as Obamacare. It also highlighted the fractures within the party over how to improve the healthcare system while not cutting millions of Americans out of insurance coverage.McConnell said after the Trump meeting that everyone around the table is interested in getting to yes but a chasm remained. It s difficult for me to see how any tinkering is going to satisfy my fundamental and deep concerns about the impact of the bill, Senator Susan Collins, a Republican moderate, said.The Senate draft would save some $321bn (R4.2 trillion) in federal spending over the 2016-17 period, according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). But it would balloon out of pocket medical expenses for the working poor and those aged 50 to 64.It would abolish the requirement for most Americans to have health insurance, likely resulting in healthy people dropping off the rolls. And it provides hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts to insurers and the wealthy, while allowing states to drop mandated benefits such as maternity care and hospital services, according to CBO.The bill would also delay cuts to the Medicaid health programme for poorer Americans and the disabled, although Medicaid cuts would be severe in the long term. Republicans want to gradually cap Medicaid expenditure which would mean 15 million people by 2026 would lose their benefits through the programme, CBO projected.The bill also maintains for two years the Obamacare tax credits that help lower income Americans purchase coverage, but eventually transitions that programme into one which provides fewer subsidies. Conservatives said the bill did not go far enough and would retain too heavy a burden on government coffers.Moderates said they could not support the number of uninsured Americans ballooning to pre-Obamacare levels. Democrats accused the administration of not lifting a finger to help stabilise the Obamacare health insurance exchanges.That insecurity has prompted insurance companies to flee and costs to rise. With the Senate bill in peril, Democrats amplified their call for Republicans to quit trying to kill the existing law and join forces in improving it. Let s come together, let s reason together, let s fix and improve that which is in the Affordable Care Act and make it a (law) which serves everybody, number two House Democrat Steny Hoyer said. AFP