This week radical economic transformation and land reform will take centre stage at the ANC s policy conference.However, for hundreds of Tenbosch land claim beneficiaries in Mpumalanga, these terms are meaningless.A successful R286m land claim in 2007 was meant to restore their dignity and change their lives forever.However, 10 years later the beneficiaries, who are pocketing as little as R800 per year, are crying foul amid allegations of lavish lifestyles of the trustees of the Ingwenyama Simhulu Trust, mismanagement and misuse of funds.Several beneficiaries who spoke to The New Age claim the trustees, who have been administering their assets for 10 years, were misusing funds and paying them peanuts.The trust was established in 2007 after the successful land claim in Komatipoort that falls under the Nkomazi municipality.About 32000ha of land was handed over to four communities as part of the claim. The trust then entered into a R285m joint venture with TSB Sugar. However, exactly 10 years after the deal was signed, the lease beneficiaries claim they have not seen financial statements showing whether the trustees were receiving the 50% profit share, which was promised to them.All they have reportedly shared among 900 families is R9m, with each household pocketing R10000.A beneficiary, who was part of the group moved from Tenbosch in 1953, Rascalina Sindane, 64, said the amount was ridiculous. I have six children, so I share the R10000 with them and when we ve shared it comes to about R120 a month. We feel they are trying to keep us quiet by giving us this little money, Sindane said.She said at some point an individual was getting R2 500, which was slashed after two years.Chairperson of the trustees, Sandile Godfrey Ngomane said the total annual income from their tribal land was only R13m. He said R10m came from rentals while R3m was the most profit they had ever received.However, according to the initial agreement in 2007, the community was to get R12m in rentals for a period of four years. There were no profits because of the lack of rain. We broke even this year because it has been raining, he said.Ramsey Ngomane, a representative of the beneficiaries, said the least they expected was to see the financials. We have never seen the financial statements of the trust. All we know is that beneficiaries and their households of about 900 receive R10000 annually around December, Ngomane said.He called on the government to intervene and ensure a forensic investigation was done.However, Rural Development Deputy Minister Candith Mashego-Dlamini said the government s efforts to intervene in Tenbosch had been fruitless as the trust interdicted them from getting involved in its issues. They have registered a trust with the Master of the High Court who is not monitoring what the trust is doing. So, they throw in a trust in the administration for the coming 10-15 years and we can t intervene as the government because it is under the Master of the High Court, Mashego-Dlamini said.She said the government was only able to intervene when the land was registered under the Communal Property Associations (CPA) Act.Mashego-Dlamini tried to investigate during her tenure as agriculture MEC in Mpumalanga but her efforts were thwarted by a court interdict.Land and Accountability Research Centre researcher Brendan Boyle said it was very suspicious that households were only getting R10000 from a claim as big as Tenbosch.He said this was not a unique case as millions of rand were going into palaces and offshore accounts while communities languished in abject poverty. Attempts to obtain comment from TSB Sugar were unsuccessful.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za