Police have asked the public to assist detectives in the arrest of a man who kidnapped two boys from a scrap yard in Thembalethu township.The boys who are aged 11 to 13 were tortured by the suspect who is reportedly also the owner of the scrap metal business.The teenagers had told the police that the suspect had taken them to nearby bushes in Ballots Bay before tying them up with a rope and dousing them with paraffin.The youngsters also claimed that the suspect burnt one of his victims with a cigarette lighter before leaving them in the bush.The boys managed to untie themselves and went to report the incident to their parents.Police said that one of the boys sustained burn wounds to the lower body.The police said community members refused to cooperate with detectives during investigations in the area. Residents did not want to cooperate with detectives and instead started swearing at the police, Thembalethu police spokesperson Capt Dumile Gwavu said. We urge the community to work with the police and report incidents of crime. A case of abduction is being investigated. The suspect is yet to be arrested. Gwavu also said that incidents of child abuse were condemned in the strongest terms by the police.A resident who wished to stay anonymous yesterday said it was disturbing that people refused to cooperate with the police on crime related matters. This is really very disturbing if community members know the culprit and they refuse to tell the police. This is Youth Month and this country has seen and read in newspapers how children are being abused. These are young boys who were abducted and tortured by the suspect and were left traumatised. The suspect is known to the community and he lives in the same area, the 45-year-old woman said.Another resident who lives just a few blocks away from one of the victim s home, said when police arrived at the scene residents swore at them and refused to help them. This person is known and it s sickening that some people wouldn t want him arrested. The suspect left the young boys in the bushes on their own. He is an adult. If the boys had wronged him he should have reported them to their parents instead of taking the law into his own hands, the resident said. We are tired of children being abused in this country. Anyone with information is asked to call Lt Mthetho Sapepa on 0827786772.MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za