There are high hopes that the area of Mahikeng could soon have a team in the top flight Premier Soccer League (PSL) after one of the local teams moved up to join the ABC Motsepe League.Marauding Classic FC became the second team in Ngaka Modiri Molema district to play in the third division, joining the North West University (NWU) Soccer Institute.The team from Magogoe Tlhabologo village booked its berth after seeing off Real South FC from Mogwase 4-3 during the provincial SAB playoffs at Montshioa Stadium.Ngaka Modiri Molema district executive mayor, Justice Makolomakwa applauded and congratulated Marauding Classic for gaining promotion to ABC Motsepe League.Makolomakwa convened a press conference to specifically thank the players, supporters, sponsors and team managers for working hard in the development of soccer in the region.He said the achievement of the team has put the municipality on the map. The football club has been playing in the SAB League making the municipality proud. The district wishes to put its support on record for the club in line with the VTSD pillar as per the resolution of the fifth administration.It s a great achievement for our local team to go up the ladder. We are grateful indeed about your achievement. It has been our wish as leaders of the province to have representatives at top leagues. In the spirit of Saamwerk- Saamtrek we will work together with all stakeholders within the municipality to support the team going forward, Makolomakwa said.The mayor said he has noted the challenges facing the team highlighting the need for sponsors to come on board especially as a new challenge beckons. We will work hard to ensure that you don t face challenges during the 2017-18 new soccer season. The municipality is still facing with lack of budget however we will try our level best to support the team in terms of transport and soccer kit, he said.The team s marketing director, Olebogeng Baikgaki said Marauding Classic is on a mission to achieve more in soccer.Giving a brief background of the team, Baikgaki said: The team started in 2007 campaigning in lower division and went on to be promoted to SAB Regional League.We competed for few years until we got promotion this to campaign in ABC Motsepe League.We have developmental teams under 12 and 15 and 18. We competed in so many tournaments and came out tops, he said.The marketing manager also said that running a soccer team is a difficult task, especially when operating from a rural setting. We are the only team that went through promotional channels unlike other who buy their way to get to this status. Promotion to the ABC Motsepe League means we are going to travel extensively hence we need our own transport.We also need budget for the operation of the team as we don t want to add numbers, he said.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za