After recently signing a publishing deal with popular youth radio station YFM, budding kwaito artist Sparzito is looking forward to contributing to the revival of the fading music genre. I am excited over the deal, it is a great starting point and as you know YFM is a reputable brand and youth radio station. This deal means that my music will be on radio, which will enhance my career with exposure, Sparzito said.Born Sibusiso Sithole, Sparzito said he did not entertain sceptics with their kwaito is dead rhetoric. After all, he was inspired by the likes of Mdu, TKZee, Mandoza and Trompies who made kwaito popular in the 90s and early 2000s. I grew up on songs such as Mazola, which was big in 1997, leading up to 1998. Upon hearing the song, I realised then that I too want be as popular as the kwaito artists of the time.The song specifically spoke to me because my mother s name is Nomsa and the song spoke about the name. Although I was still young at the time, this experience and seeing how popular these guys were inspired me to love kwaito music and what the culture spoke about. The Diepkloof-born musician began experimenting with music in 2009 when he realised that tertiary institutions weren t offering a perfect course for him to study. As a result, he built a back room studio to improve his craft. I normally write my own songs while a music friend of mine, Dane John Hawkins, does most of the production work. Since then, we have struck up a formidable music partnership. He is really good at what he does, he is the one who helped me discover my kwaito sound. The result was a six-track EP, titled Soweto, which includes two singles, Soweto and Egoli, both giving respect to the city and township that raised and inspired him to be an artist. The EP is done and I have so much music that I am in the studio recording new tracks. The songs give you a glimpse to my life and background. My approach into promoting my music is focused on conquering local pubs and weddings where I feel my music has more impact as it is made to inspire people from the townships. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za