Kaizer Chiefs have neither confirmed or denied reports in a weekend newspaper suggesting they were exploiting their young goalkeeper, Bruce Bvuma.The club said in a statement yesterday that Bvuma, as a development player, was still being paid what is effectively a development salary. The club has come under public attack after a weekend newspaper report claimed the 21-year-old Bvuma was on the shockingly low salary of R5000, triggering widespread outrage from the football public. The South African Football Player s Association (Safpu) were vociferous in condemning the club s remuneration policy.Bvuma, a development product, made a surprise senior team debut against SuperSport United late last season, being thrown into the deep end after first-choice keeper Itumeleng Khune and Brilliant Khuzwayo were sidelined by injuries. In a statement, the club said it had not anticipated that Bvuma would be involved with the senior squad at that stage. Kaizer Chiefs noted the media reports regarding Bvuma s contract and would like to place it on record that he has been part of the Kaizer Chiefs development structures since 2013-14, the statement read. After both goalkeepers Itumeleng Khune and Brilliant Khuzwayo were sidelined through injury in March, the club faced an emergency situation and, following a full assessment of the options available, elected to draft Bvuma into the senior squad after him showing tremendous form in the MDC league. Kaizer Chiefs operates within a graded structure that provides the framework for contracts with players at development, reserve team and first team level. Amakhosi did not reveal what they were paying Bvuma. Safpu said it had continuously raised concerns about the lack of a minimum wage in the PSL but the league has refused to play ball. We are aware of many cases where players are enslaved through unfair contracts by teams against their will, Safpu general secretary Thulaganyo Gaoshubelwe, said. More often than not teams make it difficult for players to take their labour elsewhere where their skills are needed. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za