There is a definite need for pupils to be taught business skills before they reach tertiary institutions, says the director of a foundation for teen entrepreneurs. We need to grow entrepreneurially minded pupils at school level who will be able to respond to needs or challenges in their communities or immediate surrounds by forming businesses that are profitable and sustainable, the founder and director of the SA Teen Entrepreneur Foundation, Lydia Zingoni, said.The SA Teen Entrepreneur Foundation aims to cultivate and promote an entrepreneurial spirit among high school pupils in Cape Town, with the intention of expanding to schools across South Africa.The foundation s programme has thus far benefitted 300 pupils who graduated last year.The foundation aims to put about 1 700 pupils through the programme by the end of the year.Zingoni said it was imperative to educate pupils about business skills as entrepreneurs were problem solvers. By instilling a culture of entrepreneurship in our young people, we are nurturing a young community of innovative thinkers and troubleshooters, Zingoni said. Importantly, entrepreneurs are also job creators and our economy is in dire need of upliftment in the area of employment creation. Zingoni s foundation believes that entrepreneurial skills should be part of the country s school curriculum. Not only can such skills be applied in one s own business, but they can add value to a formal business environment in that employees who have received such training will be able to approach challenges in the workplace with an attitude to solve problems rather than waiting for an instruction, Zingoni said.Reabetswe Nkonyane, 18, from Langa High School, is one of the graduates of the programme who also believes that entrepreneurial skills should be taught in schools. Entrepreneurial skills are a must in schools. I really believe that they should be taught because different people have different abilities and talents, Nkonyane said. I think entrepreneurial skills should be taught at school because most people think that to be successful, you have to work for someone else. But it s not like that at all. You are able to start your own business and be an employer, Phumla Mvila, from the same school, said.The foundation has managed to grow from eight schools during a pilot project in Cape Town in 2016 to 34 schools across the city this year.Zingoni said that with more than 16 million pupils across the country, there was a huge demand to expand the programme. There is massive interest from provinces like Gauteng, KZN and the Eastern Cape and we need to continue to expand our footprint in the Western Cape as well, Zingoni said.Nkonyane said the inspiration behind the idea of starting her own business was a programme that she attended at her school hosted by the SA Teen Entrepreneur Foundation, which involved the formation of Entrepreneur Societies.Mvila said she was motivated to take this opportunity due to curiosity about starting her own business. She said the way the SA Teen Entrepreneur Foundation s programme was run was very professional and encouraging. To be honest, a great deal has changed since I started the programme. It started with a mental shift, a mindset change and I realised that I had to start thinking and reasoning like an entrepreneur in the way I approached life. The way I view opportunities has changed since my exposure to the SA Teen Entrepreneur programme and it has taught me not to take any opportunity for granted, Nkonyane said.Thirty young people who graduated from the programme last year are working on kick-starting their own businesses. They are being mentored by partners Over the Rainbow and Entrepreneur and Management Solutions. We have a 15-module programme and have to take into account school holidays, exams and the running of the normal school curriculum as well, Zingoni said. If one also takes into account that we are planning to hold our grand finale in October, we are not able to take any further requests to form Entrepreneur Societies in 2017. We can, however, register schools that are interested in forming societies next year at teenentrepreneur.co.za/ high-school entrepreneurs-society/, Zingoni said.KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE 