SOWETO residents are concerned about a sex-betting brothel exposing young people to sleaze. A team from The New Age visited the brothel for three successive nights at the weekend and witnessed sordid sex orgies at a spot popularly known as Emahlanyeni (House of Mad People).On Friday night, a man identified as the owner of the brothel, dared any male present to bed a woman in full view of everyone. He placed a crate of Castle Lager quarts and money that amounted to about R250.Three men stepped up, including a fresh-faced 19-year-old teenager and a woman in her mid-20s who had been on the dance floor most of the night. The two older men, seemingly in their mid-30s, were already drunk.The trio each had a turn to have sex with the woman and the teenager emerged victorious after lasting the longest. He pocketed the money and received his carton of beer as a prize while the woman got a portion of the money for naming him the winner. This usually happens at month end when a lot of people have money but the community hates this place because of this, a regular at the brothel said. On Saturday and Sunday, about 15 skimpily dressed girls walked around the tiny house, seducing imbibers. The house in Zone 6, Diepkloof, in the vicinity of a number of family units, has about 75 revellers on a good night.A community leader, who requested anonymity, said the pimps take care of the sex workers to lure customers who provide sex in cubicles in the house for R50. Revellers keen on having sex with no protection, will pay R100 per session.In the area there are three similar brothels with some of the sex workers as young as 16 years old. Ward 26 councillor Paulos Kalamazu Mazibu confirmed he was aware of the brothels, adding that parents in the area raised their concerns several times with the police. We re aware they are masquerading as a tavern but a lot more happens in there. It appears the place is open 24 hours and everyone goes there when other night spots close, Mazibu said. He added that the issue had been raised with the Community Policing Forum but pleas to shut it down had fallen on deaf ears.A community leader, who declined to be named fearing victimisation, said the community was not happy about the place. We all know we have a problem, but no one wants to be killed so we continue to watch this nonsense happening in front of our kids.The people running the brothels are very dangerous, he said. Police officers driving a marked van were seen outside the brothel on Friday night but left without entering the house. Gauteng police spokesperson Kay Makhubele, said this was the first time he had heard about the brothel. I ve never heard of that. If there s a crime committed, just phone the police, he said. Spokesperson for the Gauteng department of social development, Mbangwa Xaba, said it was shocking that teenage girls were involved. We are shocked at the existence of such cruel exploitation of young girls. The shocking part is that this is happening during Child Protection Week, a period where as a country we are dedicating to protect children, Xaba said. He also said that they would visit the area to at least rescue the younger girls.MTHOKOZISI DUBE