Amid reports that the level of black support for the DA is plunging, the ANC in the Western Cape is pressing ahead for a no-confidence debate against her.According to a Sunday newspaper report, an internal DA survey has showed that support for the party among black voters was sliding.Zille s popularity in this group has also taken a dive. So did that of party leader Mmusi Maimane.By the end of March, the month of her colonialism tweets, 61% of black voters had an unfavourable view of her. Her social media outage also affected Maimane s ratings.Within 10 days of her messaging, according to the news report, Maimane s own standing among black voters dropped by 13%, going down to 24% from 37%.According to a Sunday newspaper report, Zille s tweets have also sent support for the DA plunging by as much as 7%, from 17% to 10%, in the past two months. The swing, according to the report, has been to the ANC and Economic Freedom Fighters.But the ANC appears to be the biggest beneficiary of this tailspin.According to the report, support for the ANC among black voters has moved from 50% to 64% in the aftermath of the tweets. Against this background of gathering political clouds forming above the DA, acting ANC provincial chairperson Khaya Magaxa said yesterday it did not matter whether at the end of the debate a secret or open ballot was held. He was only interested in the debate actually taking place in the Western Cape legislature. We are not going prescribe if we want an open debate. We believe that the DA s suspension of Helen Zille is their way of trying to manage the problem. They can t fool the public, Magaxa said.He said the ANC had submitted its request for a no-confidence debate to the speaker of the legislature, Sharna Fernandez, last Thursday. They usually take their time to check out the coast first. They can run away this week. But they can t run away next week. They will have to respond. On Zille s pro-colonialism tweets sent into the social media environment in March, Magaxa said: To us that is an extremely racist statement. This is not an internal DA problem. As the ANC we were the first to raise this in the legislature. Compounding the Zille conundrum for Maimane is that last week the EFF, his coalition partner in several metros, have demanded through its leader Julius Malema that Zille should be dropped as Western Cape premier. They must be warned. You will remain with the Western Cape with Johannesburg and Tshwane gone. We don t want to associate with a party that protects colonialism and apartheid. We are (almost there with regard) to withdrawing our votes in these municipalities if you don t suspend Helen Zille as premier. We are not going to allow that nonsense to continue, Malema said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za