THE South African Football Association (Safa) was well within its rights in arranging for a payment of $10m (R127m) to the Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Football Associations. Because the payment was not unlawful, no inquiry was held into the matter, Sports Minister Thulas Nxesi has informed Parliament. There was no inquiry into this matter as the payment was not unlawful and Safa was well within its right to make the payment in furtherance of a standing government programme of making the World Cup an African World Cup and a Fifa approved programme of Win in Africa for Africa and One Goal , Nxesi said.He said this in reply to a written question from DA member of Parliament Tsepo Mhlongo. Mhlongo had inquired whether, with regard to the payment of $10m that Fifa made to the Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Football Associations in 2008, the person who decided to make the payment had the necessary delegated authority to make such a decision. Fifa was authorised by Safa to make the necessary payment to the Confederation of North, Central and Caribbean Football Associations and was authorised to do so as the funds were destined for the host association being Safa itself, Nxesi said. He said Safa did not intend to recover this money as it was paid for a legitimate purpose and there was no verdict of wrongdoing on the part of the Confederation of North, Central and Caribbean Football Associations. Safa has noted the allegations contained in the indictment by the US attorney-general and will follow the developments closely, Nxesi said. Replying to another written question by Mhlongo, Nxesi said the impasse between the government and the Commonwealth Games Federation had been resolved. He said the Games Federation had awarded the bid to host the Commonwealth Games 2022 to South Africa. At the time of awarding the bid, the financial guarantee by the South African government was not signed, as certain conditions of the host city agreement were not favourable to South Africa, Nxesi said.This however further meant that the outstanding issues raised by the evaluation commission after their visit in April-May 2015 could not be attended to, as it was dependent on the negotiations with the Games Federation. South Africa provided a response to the issues by November 30 last year.The Games Federation completed its detailed review of the final information submitted by South Africa on November 30 last year to determine whether the requisite conditions precedent set by South Africa would be acceptable to the federation. The latter however felt that this did not meet with their methodology of games delivery and considered South Africa s position a departure from the conditions they had set in the proposed host city agreement. The evaluation commission of the Commonwealth Games Federation did not accept South Africa s conditions, budget proposals and delivery methodology. It was therefore resolved that the Commonwealth Games Federation should withdraw the rights awarded to Durban to host the 2022 edition of the games, Nxesi said.news@thenewage.co.za-Dennis Cruywagen&nbsp;