Situated deep in the heart of the eastern Free State highlands, the EarthRise Mountain Lodge is part of building the foundation of the community and making democracy work in the country.Situated at Rustlers Valley Farm near Ficksburg, the lodge is assisting more than 170 people who were evicted from neighbouring white-owned farms and settled at Naledi village, where they made a home. The manager, Jappie Lephatsi, said they were an eco-friendly social-enterprise partnership with the EarthRise Trust, a non-profit organisation founded by Kumi Naidoo, Gino Govender and Jay Naidoo. The trust purchased the 273ha Rustlers Valley property with the idea of using it to build a safe space for intergenerational conversations about finding solutions to the difficult challenges facing the world. Naledi village is situated on this property and is home to 170 families, Lephatsi said.He said without ownership or even tenure, their future on the land was never secure. Any transfer of ownership of the property represented the possibility of eviction. On purchase of the land, the EarthRise Trust entered into discussions with the Naledi village community to find working solutions to what had become a dire situation, Lephatsi said.He said the trust committed to a working partnership started with the transfer of 42ha of arable land directly to the residents. What followed was a painstaking journey of developing a partnership based on mutual respect for the land and community involvement. Skills were consolidated, developed and plans were made to build the multipurpose community centre that functions both as a pre-school and community space. He said that skills were also used to develop the farmland and build the lodge. Further plans in the pipeline include clinic facilities for the communities and surrounding areas with the agriculture project growing from strength to strength, Lephatsi said.He explained that the first crops were planted in the midst of the 2015-16 drought, yet the community persevered and within six months, were harvesting thousands of kilograms of tomatoes, cabbages, spinach and pumpkins. The community had food to feed their families, supply the school where their children went, as well as schools across the Thabo Mofutsanyana district municipality. Now, the farm grows food for the lodge s kitchen and to sell. On Saturday, the village cooperative will present their first-ever harvest celebration following the success of their 20ha sugar bean project, Lephatsi said.Anton Chaka, chairperson of the farmers co-op organising the harvest ceremony, said the sugar bean crop would bring in some much needed income for the co-op. The harvest ceremony is a big and proudly historic moment for us as a community, we have learned a lot about farming, he said.We have shown, with resources and supporting communities, that they can produce their own food and if every community was given the opportunity, no one in this country would have to go hungry. He said this was evidence that residents who were supported with land and skills could build the better life that was promised to people in 1994. Trustee and co-founder of the EarthRise Trust Jay Naidoo, concluded that this was the beginning of a new journey of a community working to build its own future. It s what should be happening across our beautiful country, he said.BECKER SEMELAbeckers@thenewage.co.za