On the heels of a high-profile Constitutional Court ruling that shone the spotlight on the doctrine of the separation of powers in the government, deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo said his life s work also rested on the principle of independence.Over tea at the Constitutional Court which houses Zondo s chamber, the deputy chief justice said the ethos that lay behind the unanimous ruling that National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, had the constitutional powers to permit Parliament to vote on a motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma through a secret ballot, was employed through his work as a judge in the country s top court.He said the ruling, which put the ball in Mbete s court to decide on the matter did not breach the separation of powers principle.It is for this he said that the theory of separation, resting on the foundation that the three branches of the government are to be independent of each other, penetrated ever deeper in his own life. Integrity is fundamental to a judge. It s fundamental to a democracy, It s fundamental to society when it comes to people like judges, because society must have confidence in the courts, society must have confidence that the judges will decide on those cases according to the Constitution and the law, Zondo, who was appointed deputy chief justice of the Constitutional Court of South Africa in June, succeeding the widely celebrated judge Dikgang Moseneke. If they were to think that who wins is going to be decided by which view is the most popular in the court of public opinion, then they don t need judges. If you are going to allow yourself to be influenced by public opinion sooner or later some people will start detecting that no but that judge decides according to which way the wind is blowing. Zondo said that after he decided to leave the Labour Court in May 2010, to serve as one of 11 judges on the Constitutional Court benches, his experience in the broader legal profession paid off immediately. No I m not intimidated at all. I ve been a judge for more than 20 years. I ve been judge president of the Labour Appeal Court and Labour Court for close to 11 years, I ve led at appeal court level. Some of the judges that acted in the Labour Appeal Court have been judges before me. I led them and I believe that over the 20 years, I acquired a lot of experience which will be very handy for this position. However, Zondo s rise was far from meteoric. His success was not only a product of great intellect and industry, but also a life altering experience he attributed to providence.He grew up in poverty stricken Ixopo, KwaZulu-Natal. Educated at St Mary s Seminary, Zondo was not afraid to lay bare the harrowing circumstances of being one of 9 siblings, raised by an unemployed single mother. Although at home we were very poor as there were many of us siblings and for all intents and purposes my mum was raising us single handedly. She sacrificed a lot so that we could get an education. One of the things that my mother used to say that she did not want any of her children to say he or she didn t get an education because she did not provide for them or send them to school. While she was employed and she was able to sell things and get money, she said she wanted her children to go to school. That emphasised to me how important education was, Zondo said.As Zondo s eyes welled with tears when speaking about his mother, it was clear to see that his love for her was sincere and unabating.Zondo said that it was his mother s nuggets of wisdom that she shared with him that fostered a love of learning, which went on to later become a ruling passion of his in the latter stages of his life. I remember when I went to St Mary s Seminary for the first time, she walked me to the bus stop and she was talking to me about the importance of education. And she was talking to me about the fact that she had sacrificed a lot of money to be able to send me to a boarding school and that when I came to the boarding school, I needed to always remember why I was there. Upon completion of matric, Zondo s hopes of making his humble progress in life through an education were fading.At a time when furthering your studies at university was a function of the wealth of one s family, Zondo s was contemplating giving up on his dream to get a job in order to support his family.However, fate would have it that an Ixopo business owner he referred to as Mr Bucks , offered to provide his mother and siblings with groceries every month. In addition, Zondo said he got a loan from Mr Bucks, which enabled him to obtain his junior law degree. After I had finished my junior degree I asked him if I could make arrangements for me to pay him back and he said no don t worry, do for others what I ve done for you . His generosity made a big difference to me because if I had gone to work I don t know if I would have later gone to university. His help enabled me to go to university and the rest is history. Zondo, sharing his reflections on existential political and economic headwinds facing the country, said that while he feared that the political turmoil could unduly increase the workload of the courts , notwithstanding which, the constitutional court as a court of last resort, would remain on high alert to help arrest the crisis. The judiciary is that it should be known to be an independent judiciary that does its job effectively and efficiently.It should be a judiciary that brings about certainty about what the law is in various areas. Yes in the political arena there all kinds of things and some cases are brought to courts that you look at and think this case could have been resolved by Parliament or the executive. But once they have been brought and that dispute can be resolved by the application of the law, then the courts have no choice but to resolve them, Zondo said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.za