In intensifying its fight against state capture, the DA is set to lay criminal charges against at least three Cabinet ministers and is proposing the formation of a Parliamentary ad hoc committee to investigate the issue. The DA is hopeful that the motion for the creation of an ad hoc committee will be tabled in the National Assembly before it rises at the end of June.ANC parliamentary spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli yesterday said the party was waiting for the DA to circulate its proposal. The ad hoc committee that the DA has in mind will be different from the inquiry into Eskom that Parliament s public enterprises portfolio committee is considering, DA Chief Whip John Steenhuisen said. My problem is what we re doing at the moment is we re pulling at one tentacle. My worry is we re looking at Eskom in isolation. You need one holistic ad hoc committee that is going to examine the scourge of state capture in its entirety, Steenhuisen said.The proposal for an ad hoc committee was informally raised at a meeting of Parliament s chief whips forum last week. It will be tabled at the same forum tomorrow. If unanimity is reached the DA proposal will head for the programming committee and then to the National Assembly. At a press conference yesterday Steenhuisen was hopeful the party s draft resolution would be accepted. It has become clear that a sweeping investigation into state capture is required and Parliament, empowered by Section 55 of the Constitution to oversee the exercise of executive authority, is best placed to undertake it. He said the ad hoc committee would be authorised to determine its own working arrangements. This would include summoning any person, including President Jacob Zuma and members of the Gupta family, to appear before it and give evidence under oath. The ad hoc committee would also be able to hold public hearings.The DA, Steenhuisen said, had been working behind the scenes and believed there was no reason why any party in Parliament would be opposed to the creation of an ad hoc committee. For the motion to be passed it would need a simple majority. In the interests of South Africa, we urge all parties to support our motion and to work side-by-side to investigate and expose those individuals who have sold our country to the highest bidder. Meanwhile, the DA said there was overwhelming evidence that Cabinet ministers and the heads of state-owned entities have abused their positions of privilege by wantonly passing government information on to the Gupta family and their associates to be exploited for self-enrichment .DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za