The former NEC members of the South African Congress of Trade Unions (Sactu) extend their condolences to the family of comrade Kay Moonsamy, an elder in the movement, who gave everything for the struggle and asked for nothing in return .He had a special provincial official funeral in Durban on Saturday after passing away last Wednesday.In exile, Moonsamy was part of the NEC family and was said to be an exemplary and selfless fighter, who was always good humoured and willing to give his all. With his easy smile, Moonsamy was the last treasurer of Sactu, when it was phased out in 1990 in favour of Cosatu.Moonsasmy held this position from the mid 1980s up to 1990, based in Lusaka, Zambia at the head office.He was said to be approachable, open-minded and a good listener. He was willing to listen to all and sundry because he was confident of his ability to debate and put his argument across, Sactu said. Moonsamy did not shy away from debate and often joined the younger comrades when we discussed and argued politically about every issue under the sun. Comrade Kay had strong views and was able to shed political clarity on burning issues of the day. He provided direction and guidance to fellow comrades. He was well read and always directed them to books they should be reading. One of his favourite books was God s Bits of Wood by Ousmane Sembene, the Senegalese author. He was in the leadership of Sactu along with stalwarts such as Moses Mabhida, John Nkadimeng, Archie Sibeko, Zola Zembe, Ray Simons, Mark Shope, Stephen Dlamini, Eric Mtshali, Eli Weinberg, Aaron Pemba.Sactu was part of the Congress Alliance led by the ANC, because it recognised the critical link between the struggle for economic and political rights . Sactu knew that the struggle for better working conditions and higher wages cannot be separated from the fight for political rights. The two were inextricably linked, they said.Sactu therefore believed that the fight had to be waged on all fronts, in the factories, in the community, in the church, in the underground, internationally and everywhere workers found themselves.The trade union federation, which was formed in March 1955, became a signatory to the Freedom Charter and its members and leaders played a pivotal role in the door to door activities, collecting signatures in the Freedom Charter campaign. This year, today, we are observing 62 years of the adoption of the Freedom Charter in June 1955. Sactu played an instrumental role through its underground presence during the years leading up to the formation of Cosatu in 1985. Those years were filled with discussions and debates on approaches to unity talks, conditions being placed on them, the principle of one country one federation, one industry, one union and the principles on which such a federation should be built. The principle of unity was central to the protracted effort to form Cosatu. That principle is still relevant today and in honour of all our fallen trade union leaders and activists, all the forces involved in the trade union movement should not lose sight of the critical importance of unity, and its central position in our day to day undertakings. We should refuse to compromise on the fight for a single united trade union. Sactu said the fight for a single united trade union federation was not over. We still have to consolidate the interests of all workers in one federation. This is in the interests of the working class to be united. The workers united shall never be defeated! El pueblo unido, jamas sera vencido! This is a war cry comrade Kay loved! Throughout the years, Sactu said it recognised the importance of international working class solidarity and always stood on the side of workers who were struggling in other parts of the world, giving credence to its slogan, an injury to one is an injury to all.Sactu said it succeeded in mobilising international working class support for the struggle against apartheid for a democratic, united, non-racial, non sexist South Africa.Throughout the world, workers stood up in support of the struggle in South Africa all over the African continent, in Asia, Europe, the Americas, Australia and New Zealand trade unions supported black workers in their struggle to be free.It is against this backdrop that Moonsamy dedicated his life and was a brave and vocal fighter.The NEC said: Let us remember and honour those who have given their lives for our freedom. Above all, let us follow in their footsteps and pick up their spears. Former Sactu leaders include John Nkadimeng, Zola Zembe, Archie Sibeko, Thobile Mhlahlo, Ilva Mackay Langa, Vanguard Mkosana, Mark Sweet, Phil Bonisile Norushe, Humphrey Maxegwana, Stix Bangumzi Sifingo and Eric Mtshali. 701198