With the recent name change and tweaking of his hip hop brand, Nigerian hip hop artist Coal Black, now Royal Black, is stepping up his game to another level.Speaking to The New Age recently, the Warri Delta State-born rapper says music has always been a part of his life growing up in Nigeria. The reason I have decided to change my name is because I believe black is a royal colour. It serves to distinguish my brand from ashes to classic and this is how I feel about my music that it is of royal and kingdom form, the rapper said.He says he has always been surrounded by music from an early age and his blend of superb rapping skills gives a new spin on hip hop with elements of R&amp;B that helped him be an innovative artist, who is well travelled, having established a commendable following in the Ghana hip hop community. I was a musical child as my father was a pastor who introduced us all to music. When I was much younger, I was fascinated by the Jackson Five, then later took a liking to the emerging hip hop voices such as Tupac and Notorious BIG. It was in 2009 that my career started in Accra, with the formation of WaffWild, a hip hop band, he said.In 2012, the rapper decided to bring his carer to South Africa. South Africa has plenty of opportunities for artists that Nigeria and other parts of the world cannot offer. It has been great absorbing the local culture while also creating a name for myself. The SA music scene is quite vibrant and exciting and I feel I can grow and get to collaborate with some of the country s artists such as AKA and Cassper, as they are also big in Nigeria. Royal Black also did a collaboration with an artist from Ghana called Chase on a song titled Feel You.With six more songs to go before he completes his upcoming album, Royal Black is hopeful about his future in the African hip hop industry. I have just shot a video for my new single, Paid and am looking to release a 15-track album before the end of September. It is also a dream of mine to hopefully one day collaborate with the likes of Nas, Rick Ross, Jay-Z, Lil Wayne and Drake. Hopefully that the dream will come True in the near future as the possibilities are endless when it comes to the love and attention African artists are getting from American artists, he said.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za