TRIBUTES continue to pour in for Yizo Yizo and Zone 14 actor Jabu Christopher Kubheka, popularly known as Gunman, who was found dead at his Soshanguve home in Pretoria on Monday.It is reported that the unresponsive body of the pint-sized actor, whom police said had committed suicide, was found in his home by his wife.Among those who have mourned the death of the underrated actor was Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa, who yesterday morning sent condolences to the Kubheka family. We send our deepest sympathies to the family of popular Yizo Yizo and Zone 14 actor Jabu Christopher Kubheka who has tragically passed away, the minister said.Gauteng MEC Faith Mazibuko lamented the actor s death as saddening, described the actor as a remarkable entertainer whose character as Gunman in YizoYizo will forever be engraved in the minds ofmany . In YizoYizo he was part of young and ground-breaking new production that ushered brutally honest storylines which got the country talking. His craft was most definitely sharpened by experiences in the streets, including community theatre, Mazibuko said.Actors such as Nomzamo Mbatha, Portia Gumede and many others also took time out to mourn him on social media. Actor and rapper Mxolisi Majozi, known to many as Zuluboy, spoke to The New Age about the fun times he had with Kubheka on the set of Gold Diggers in 2015. He was a fun guy who brought his creative way of storytelling. There was never a dull moment, and even after doing your lines individually at home, on set he was a great guy everyone wanted to rehearse with. Majozi suspected that the pressures of not getting enough acting gigs as well as societal expectations might have something to do with the untimely death of the charismatic actor. There are pressures of being a creative and actor from society. When you do not drive a fancy car and struggle to make ends meet, this is what happens. The good thing is that, Kubheka ran his race and inspired other actors to be the best they can be, Majozisaid.Kubheka made his name when he appeared as Gunman and Bazooka Gunman from the two Bomb Shelter-produced SABC1 dramas.He was also a kwaito musician who loved to perform at any given chance.Other television productions that Kubheka has appeared in include dramas like Jacob s Cross and A Place Called Home, soapies Zabalaza, Gold Diggers and Generations, comedies Abo Mzala, Ses Top La and Thandeka s Diary.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za&nbsp;//