Bafana Bafana s training sessions are traditionally behind closed door affairs with no one except the team staff allowed into the inner sanctum. But yesterday Stuart Baxter decided to break with tradition, the Bafana coach was seen putting his players through their paces in full view of the media and school pupils who were bussed in to watch the morning session.It was another sign of the team s transition to a new regime, a significant departure from those over-cautious coaches who often couldn t even trust their own shadows. But in the warm weather at the FNB Stadium, the likes of Bongani Zungu, Lebogang Phiri and Themba Zwane could be pictured enjoyed the coach s football drills. Yet despite the informal appearance, Baxter was in full charge of the session, clearly not taking things for granted.It s a massive battle that South Africa face against their nemesis Nigeria in their opening Africa Cup of Nations qualifier on Saturday, and Baxter s first assignment as the national coach. The team held about four training segments involving breaking attacks, transition from defence to attack and other organisational work. The preparations are going well. Baxter is a good coach, the sessions are going well and you can see everyone is happy and looking forward to the trip to Nigeria, Zungu said. I m happy to be back in the team. It s been some a while. Everybody knows I ve struggled with injury. It s good to be back. If I get a chance to play I ll grab it. It s important for the nation that we win. The competition is good. I m looking to take my experience from Portugal and bring it here and also help the younger guys to give them motivation and belief that they can also play abroad. Zungu has grown in stature since his breakthrough into the Portuguese Vitoria Guimaraes side, morphing from a Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder dazzler into a more complete player, whose influence on the park cannot be underestimated.He shone in the recent Portugal Taca Cup in their 2-1 loss to giants Benfica, but it was quite a mark the South African left on the match. Not much has changed, but I believe I m quicker and my decision making has also improved, Zungu said. The stadiums in Europe are always full and you gain confidence from that. I m proud of the goal I scored against Benfica. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za