Parliament has become the latest institution to announce that it will initiate processes to have the public protectors report set aside. This comes after Busisiwe Mkhwebane released her report on the failure by the South African government to implement the CIEX report and to recover public funds from Absa Bank. In her remedial action Busisiwe Mkhwebane called for a constitutional amendment that would alter the objectives of the SA Reserve Bank to focus on economic growth rather than currency and price stability. However Parliament has announced that it believes Mkhwebane’s action is encroaching on its powers. “The Public Protector’s remedial action essentially instructs a committee of Parliament to start a legislative process, prescribes to the institution on the policy that will inform the bill, the wording of the amendment of the Constitution’s section 224 and directs what constitutional provisions must inform the legislative process of the bill,” said Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo in a statement. ” Parliament believes that the remedial action, which is binding in terms of the law, usurps the powers of the institution under the Constitution. Section 57 of the Constitution empowers the Assembly to control its internal arrangements, proceedings and procedures,” he said. The opposition DA has welcomed parliaments decision calling Mkhwebane’s remedial action “a significant overreach of the Public Protector’s Constitutional mandate,”. “We thus support this vital step taken by Parliament and will continue to investigate avenues to ensure that the Public Protector fulfills her mandate and does not overreach to the detriment of South Africa,” said the DA’s Glynnis Breytenbach. Since Mkhwebane’s report, ANC leaders have been sending divergent views on the matter. Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe and Treasurer General Zweli Mkhize have expressed views that theReserve Bank mandate should remain unchanged, contrary to Mkhwebane’s remedial action. However the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) president Collen Maine has disagreed with this saying “, we support theremedial action. It’s something we will have to take up at the policy conference.The issues he is raising are his viewsand not the views of the ANC,” ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) president Bathabile Dlamini has also voiced her support for Mkhwebane. Absa, which has been directed to pay back R1.1bn, by Mkhwebane has also announced that it will approach the court to have the report set aside. -TNA Reporter 