Over the past few weeks, our country has woken up to news of gruesome killings of women and girls by men known to them.The nation has been united in condemning these killings.Since the death of Karabo Mokoena, the young woman allegedly murdered by her partner, the media, including this publication, has dedicated commendable resources to ensuring that this crisis of attacks against women is highlighted.Politicians and civil society have played their role in isolating the perpetrators.Also welcome has been the role played by men, especially the youth of our country, who have distanced themselves from these horrendous acts of criminality.These cruel individuals are running out of space to hide in our society. There are many reasons why these men, who are supposed to be protectors of our women and girls, have turned into killers.For a start, it is true our country has a violent past. Colonialism and apartheid were violent ideologies that disproportionately affected women and children.Violence against women and girls is rooted in gender-based discrimination and social norms and gender stereotypes that perpetuate it. Given the devastating effect violence has on women, efforts have mainly focused on responses and services for survivors.We have done a lot to address the legacy of apartheid and its violence. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission or TRC was one of the most imaginative ways of dealing with our hurtful past. And the establishment of President Jacob Zuma s Moral Regeneration Movement was another step of reviving our moral fabric as a society.However, the recent spate of killings of women and girls shows that the impact of such interventions are waning. We need to reinvigorate these efforts. Law enforcement agencies can help by being proactive.Research shows that much of the violence against women and girls is perpetrated by men who are known to the victims and behind closed doors. Stiff sentences, such as life in prison, can act as a deterrent to would-be offenders.Jail terms are a blunt tool in dealing with this scourge. My submission is that the best way to end violence against women and girls is by addressing its root and structural causes.First, prevention should entail a thorough analysis of the root problem. This will result in making the home and public spaces more safe.Second, prevention should start early in life, by educating and working with boys in promoting respect for women and girls, and gender equality. Working with our youth is a best bet for faster, sustained progress on preventing and eradicating gender-based violence. For it is a critical time when values and norms around gender equality are forged.Third, awareness-raising and community mobilisation, including through media and social media, is another important component of an effective prevention strategy.And fourth, prevention should involve working with men s organisations instead of demonising them. This will help accelerate progress in preventing and ending violence against women and children.Last weekend, we began the process of formulating a comprehensive anti-femicide plan. Under the auspices of the SA Men Movements United (Sammovu), as many as 500 men from all walks of life in South Africa gathered in Boksburg to deliberate on this plan.We engaged with the following: Contextual drivers of this scourge Legislation review, policy framework and identify gaps between policy and practice A national strategy with clear role functions and cascading these to the provinces Socio-cultural issues and their influence on violence The effects of information technology The role and effects of parent/guardian on gender-based violence and Change trends and violence as a way of life.Our modest goal is to start a movement that will ensure that our homes and public spaces are safe for our wives, mothers, girlfriends and girls. As heads of our families, we want to join hands in leading this critically important national effort.George NgwenyaGeorge Ngwenya: senior director at GN ministries, overseer at Men-In-Prayer and coordinator of Sammovu