Despite Free State Stars not yet making a formal announcement, The New Age can confirm that Sly Mosala has been roped in as part of their new technical team.Ea Lla Koto, who survived relegation by the skin of their teeth last season, will go into the new campaign with a new-look technical team. Stars changed coaches three times in the previous campaign and finished the season under the guidance of Serame Letsoaka, a former player. Letsoaka joined the club in January on a six-month deal, replacing Giovanni Solinas and guided the side to a 14th place finish in the Absa Premiership. It s believed that the club has opted against keeping the former Bafana Bafana assistant coach as their head coach despite helping them to stay in the top tier.But it seems as if Ea Lla Koto s management was definitely not impressed by the team s performance, which almost sent them to the National First Division, under Letsoaka. Mosala will assist the new coach at Ea Lla Koto who is believed to be Jean Luscuito who recently parted ways with Black Leopards. A source has confirmed that the former University of Pretoria and Polokwane City assistant coach will be working for the Bethlehem-based club next season. Sly has joined Free State Stars as an assistant coach who is yet to be announced in the senior team. He was hired a month ago. He will join the team next week for the pre-season, a source said. The appointment of Mosala might confirm the news of Belgian coach Luscuito replacing Letsoaka. I really don t know yet who will be the head coach but that could be a sign because those two worked very well together at Black Leopards, the source said. But if it s true, it will mean the club has been engaging with Luscuito even before the playoffs because Sly joined even before them. The two men helped Leopards to qualify for the PSL promotional/relegation playoffs but lost the race to the top tier to Baroka FC.When Mosala was contacted about his move to the Free State, the 2015 MDC-winning coach asked for questions to be directed to Stars. However, club general manager Ratsie Mokoena wasn t available for comment or Letsoaka to shed some light on his future.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za