The killing of women continues on an upward trajectory with at least six women reported dead around the country this week.In Gauteng alone three women have died and the details surrounding two of the deaths are still unclear. In the third case, a 30-year-old woman died in hospital almost two weeks after she was admitted.Masingita Ngobeni died on Tuesday after she was kidnapped from Morningside and set alight in Sebokeng. Her ex-lover is under police guard in hospital and is expected to face charges of abduction and murder.Eskom employee Thembisile Yende, whose body was found at one of the power utility s substations in Springs, is among those whose death is still a mystery.On Wednesday, the body of an unidentified woman was found dumped in an open field near Kameeldrift outside Pretoria. The bullet-riddled body was found by farm workers on their way to work.On the same day, two partly decomposed bodies of women were found in the bushes in Mdantsane in the Eastern Cape.The gruesome discovery was made by members of the K9 unit who were searching for a suspect in a possibly unrelated case.Eastern Cape provincial police spokesperson Capt Mluleki Mbi said: A young schoolgirl reported an attempted attack on her by an unknown male in the vicinity where the bodies were later discovered. The circumstances surrounding their deaths are unknown and no positive identification has been possible at this stage. The matter is treated as a top priority and a full investigation is under way. Provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Liziwe Ntshinga said police were determined to increase the strides made in the reduction of crimes against women and children. We will do everything we possibly can to help make our women and children feel safe, Ntshinga said. We need to stop this scourge of violence now. Each case of this nature will be investigated as a priority to ensure that the perpetrators are arrested and face the full might of the law. On Saturday, a 21-year-old Stellenbosch University student s body, Hannah Cornelius, was found on the side of the road. Four men have been arrested in connection with her rape and murder.From April 1 to May 21, 63 women were slain in Gauteng alone, with 10 confirmed to have been killed by their partners.Gauteng police have since set up a task team of 16 detectives to investigate the spate of killings of women.Meanwhile, there is a campaign supported by a number of activist groups, calling for the government s commitment to a national strategic plan on gender-based violence.lillians@thenewage.co.za