The Minister of Mineral Resources, Mosebenzi Zwane, yesterday dropped a bombshell announcing that South Africa s new mining charter, which sets industry targets for black ownership and participation in the sector, will be gazetted and become law next week.The announcement sent shock waves among industry players and other stakeholders, saying that they had not seen the latest revised version. Overall, the mining industry has complained that it has not been consulted enough about the revisions and that South Africa s mining industry is losing investments as a result. The Chamber of Mines responded: Not seen it &#8230;not seen the latest &#8230; have not seen the current comment and can t go with that. During the Mining Indaba in Durban in early February, some industry players said that the current charter needed to be fixed and couldn t be implemented in its present form. Others argued that the Mining Charter of the Department of Minerals and Resources had not met its objectives of eliminating regulatory uncertainty. The Mining Charter review should aim for more policy certainty and shared value thinking. The industry, which is struggling under the weight of cost increases and weak global commodity prices, is crying out for more certainty. Unlike a compliance-driven approach, shared value thinking is needed to drive, innovation, productivity enhancement and economic growth, Andrew Lane, Africa mining leader at Deloitte, said. Some pressure groups such as the Centre for Economic Development and Transformation (CEDT) are pushing for the government to adopt mining policies that give 51% control of the mines to employees and black investors.The group has also called for 25% public ownership of mineral resources in addition to the legislated 26% BEE ownership requirement that is in the Mining Charter. In an interview with The New Age shortly after the announcement, the founder of CEDT, Duma Gqubule, said they didn t know on what basis the charter would be gazetted and signed into law next week. We don t know if enough consultation was done. We don t have confidence that this charter will address all issues based on the last version of the charter. The reality is, nobody has seen this charter, not even the Chamber of Mines. It is very difficult for one to guess which charter the minister is talking about, Gqubule said. The Chamber of Mines said that since it had not seen the current version, it would be difficult to comment until it was sure what it contained.Other stakeholders said the time is now for all stakeholders to make a concerted effort in ensuring the mining sector returned to a position whereby it could once more be a driver of growth in South Africa .-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za