As the country gears up to celebrate youth day in honour of the 1976 Soweto pupil uprising against the apartheid government, KZN Premier Willies Mchunu has reminded the province s youth that the democratic state did not come cheaply.He said freedom had not been handed over on a platter by the perpetrators and architects of those injustices who were prepared to kill those who opposed the evil system.Speaking ahead of the provincial Youth Day commemoration in Mtubatuba in northern KwaZulu-Natal, Mchunu said it was attained through the sacrifices and blood of many young people. He reminded the youth of today that it was through those sacrifices that they now have the power and right to determine their destiny. We want to acknowledge the fact that the transition from an abnormal and oppressive system of apartheid to a truly democratic state did not come about through the willingness of perpetrators and architects of those injustices. We now speak of freedom and democracy because of the sacrifices of many young people. He also urged young people to double their efforts in order to bring about economic emancipation for the majority of the citizens of the province, who are ravaged by poverty. Importantly, we want to mobilise young people to double their efforts to bring about economic emancipation for the majority of the citizens of this province. We make this call as guided by the theme of this year s youth month celebrations the Year of OR Tambo: Advancing Youth Economic Participation, Mchunu said. On June 16, we will gather at Nordale Sports Field at 9am in Mtubatuba to remind the people of this province that through the bold actions of young people, we now have rights to determine our own destiny. Umkhanyakude district municipality spokesperson Mduduzi Dlamini said they were expecting more than 10000 young people to attend the event hosted by the district municipality. Many of the young people who will be coming will be from the district but what we got from the previous meeting was that more young people will also be coming from eThekwini municipality, Pietermaritzburg, Ugu and other municipalities. We are also expecting traditional leaders, other young people who are funded by the government to study aviation and also the mayors and councillors from the province, Dlamini said.He said aside from the premier, the provincial economic development and tourism MEC Sihle Zikalala and the mayor of the district would be among the guest speakers. There will be various kinds of entertainment for the youth. With this celebration, we want to include all races. We want to have white people. We want to have Indians. We want to have everyone on board to celebrate this day because it is not only for black youth but it is also for the white and Indian youth as well. So we are expecting it to be multicultural. He says the event will not only be about celebrating but will also motivate young people to form their own corporations so they can experience radical economic transformation. The MECs will be visiting some of the projects that young people own in the area. Many of the projects are focused on agriculture and tourism. They will visit just to see what young people are doing. So we are hoping that these projects will motivate other young people who are not doing anything to start something. There are departments such as the department of tourism and economics to help them, he said.Dlamini urged the youth attending the celebrations to come dressed in their school uniforms. If you remember, young people in school uniforms fought in 1976 against apartheid and Bantu education. It all started with them. So wearing a school uniform will truly commemorate them. The eThekwini municipality will also be holding a Youth Day commemoration at the Mpumalanga Stadium on Saturday, where more than 5000 young people are expected to attend.Sihle Mavuso and Lesley Tshamanoprovinces@thenewage.co.za