THE ANC leadership in the Nkangala region has called on the high court to impose minimum sentences of 15-years imprisonment on the two men convicted of assaulting and forcing Victor Rathabile Mlotshwa in a coffin almost a year ago.Theo Martins Jackson and Willem Oosthuizen were found guilty by the high court in Middelburg on Friday on seven charges including two of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.Other counts included unlawful possession of a firearm, kidnapping, attempted murder, intimidation and defeating the ends of justice.The court heard that Delton Sithole was the first person to be attacked by the two.The bail of Jackson and Oosthuizen was extended until October 23 when they would be sentenced.ANC regional chairperson Speedy Mashilo said it was clear that the attack on Mlotshwa was racial and the court should not be lenient when punishing the accused. As the ANC, we are glad that justice has been done. We are calling on the court to send the two men to a minimum of 15-years each. Their crimes were racist which will not be tolerated in this time of democracy, Mashilo said.Mlotshwa who was flanked by her mother Malehlogonolo Mlotshwa said: All I want is to see the two men being sent to prison because they indeed humiliated me. I am happy that they were found guilty but I do not mean that all the white farmers are racist. His mother said: They should get a harsh punishment because they really assaulted my son and damaged his mind. Despite the accused having denied any wrongdoing and an affidavit that was read in the fully packed courtroom that their intention was not to kill Mlotshwa but to teach him a lesson , judge Sekgopotjie Mphahlele remained adamant that it was clear that they intended to kill Mlotshwa.She said the video of the attack which went viral on social media clearly indicated the aggressive conduct of the two men which could have led to the killing of Mlotshwa. The community should know that the will of justice was done and the sentencing is in the process, she said.Jonas Sibanyoni from the South African Human Rights Commission said they were satisfied with the manner in which the case was handled by the court. As the commissioner from the SAHRC deployed in Mpumalanga, I am here for a watching brief overseeing to the court proceedings since the accused have already admitted to having put the complainant in the coffin. It is clear that this is a violation of dignity and racial discipline. They also stated that the coffin was bought only for scaring black people, Sibanyoni said.The courtroom which was overcrowded with members from various political parties including the DA and EFF in support of Mlotshwa, heard that Mlotshwa was on his way to the town in Middelburg in August last year when he was confronted by the farmers and accused of trespassing and stealing cables.They then assaulted and put him at the back of the bakkie before they forced him into a coffin. In the process, they threatened to douse him with petrol and put a snake in the coffin.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za