Banks implicated in the rand manipulation scandal were colluding on their responses to the Competition Commission, the competition commissioner said yesterday.He lambasted companies for exploiting consumers through a culture of cartels and price fixing in order to get ahead and meet their profit targets . Competition commissioner Tembinkosi Bonakele yesterday made it clear the competition watchdog would show no mercy to defaulters. He was talking on the sidelines of the regulator s 11th annual competition law, economics and policy conference in Johannesburg.A particular sore point, he said, was the banking forex manipulation scandal involving 17 banks accused of manipulating the rand. Bonakele said that none of the banks had come forward to dispute their involvement. The banks must in an affidavit tell us we are wrong. They still have not answered. He said that they must not be misled by lawyers and advisers in thinking that the matter will go away as it will not . We are serious about clamping down on this matter.In hearings and litigation, the banks are colluding on their responses. This cannot be (allowed). Each bank must account for their part in the manipulation of the rand, he said. The 17 banks implicated were urged by the commission to come forward with a response, either disputing or accepting their involvement in the cartel. The forex manipulation scandal came to light when the commission unearthed collusion among 17 banks (both local and international) to manipulate the US dollar/rand exchange rate and collude on prices for bids, offers and bid-offer spreads for the spot trades.The Competition Tribunal said that banks that have filed the exceptions include Investec, Standard New York Securities, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, JP Morgan Chase, BNP Paribas, Commerzbank, Macquarie Bank, HSBC Bank, Bank of America Merril Lynch International and Nomura International. Bonakele said that the commission was concerned about the impact of markets on poverty in SA and has committed to intensifying its focus on competition policy to call out the culprits.He said the law criminalising cartels must be more stringent. The commissioner did not mince words about the intensity that SA businesses can expect from the regulator. Businesses must not underestimate the powers of the Competition Commission. We are compiling a list of companies suspected of committing fraud and we are coming for all of them. Sanctions may be imposed in terms of criminalisation of cartels and holding them accountable. He noted that there had been no repeat offenders among companies that had been caught and prosecuted and this should send a strong message .But Standard Bank denied collusion charges earlier this month, saying it wanted the commission to furnish it with full evidence on its allegations. The bank said the commission had no case against it. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za