TANKISO Mosie, 24, started toilet paper brand Red Ribbon at the age of 19 while fresh out of FET college and unemployed.Tankiso, who started trading informally to make ends meet, decided on the toilet paper manufacturing route and approached his sister, Matisetso Mosie, to help him run the business.At the recent launch of their factory in a village near King William s Town, MEC for economic development Sakhumzi Somyo commended the young founders of the company for their initiative which he said would be a step to develop the economy of the village.The siblings grew their business from three to 14 employees in the past five years. They received a more than R2.5m injection from the department of economic development and environmental affairs, which Tankiso said was used to build the manufacturing facility and buy equipment and a vehicle.The Small Enterprise Development Agency (Seda) helped with branding and buying some of the machines while the National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) helped with computers. Initially there were five of us including my sister and three employees. We started working from home. Now we have 14 employees and 10 of them work full time. We supply Nicks Food SuperSpar in King William s Town and Georgeous SuperSpar in Alice and Fort Beaufort. Weirs Cash n Carry has shown interest and wants us to present and we have also approached Pick Pay, Mosie said.Red Ribbon manufactures various ranges from recycled, to virgin single-ply and double-ply. We have capacity of producing when we work full shifts to produce 30000 units, Mosie said.He said his immediate goal was to grow the business.Mosie thanked the government agencies and departments for their assistance. We received a lot of assistance from the Treasury when Wonga Siwisa was still there. He introduced us to all these financial institutions. He has been a good advisor. The department of economic development and environmental affairs gave us a R2.5m grant and NYDA gave us R48000. We can t really quantify the assistance from Seda because most of it was non-financial, Mosie said.Somyo called on the government and communities in the province to support locally manufactured brands. He commended the siblings for changing the economic face of their village. Nowhere in our province have we heard of a factory opening in a rural village employing people from the rural communities. We have a product we can call our own and all of us should support this initiative. Somyo said the Local and Regional Economic Development Fund was focused on involving local people in the development of their local economies through opportunities for economic growth and employment creation.He commended Tankiso and Matisetso for breaking barriers to start Red Ribbon. Red Ribbon has been started in a village by young people who dared to dream big in sectors where others have failed and for that we salute their resolve and determination. Their efforts have effectively taken 14 members of this community out of unemployment and poverty, Somyo said.He called on local and provincial government departments to use the local procurement policy framework to support locally produced products.SIYA MITIprovinces@thenewage.co.za