DEFIANT ANC legislator Makhosi Khoza insisted yesterday there was nothing to celebrate in the wake of the failed no-confidence vote in President Jacob Zuma amid a growing chorus in the ranks of the ruling party to act against rebel MPs who voted with the opposition. Khoza was the main speaker on the second day of the Duke Menell Media Exchange in Johannesburg on Saturday. She compared last Tuesday’s vote to other seminal moments in South Africa’s political history, including the jailing of Nelson Mandela in 1964 and the hanging of Solomon Mahlangu in 1979. “Those who celebrated the defeat on the motion of no confidence are mistaken. We must, as Amílcar Cabral told us before his assassination in 1973, “expose the lies whenever they bear their ugly heads. Truth always prevails,” Khoza said. She said those rejoicing the defeat of the motion were on the wrong side of history. “Those who celebrated in 1964 when Madiba was sentenced as a terrorist were mistaken. So were those who murdered our youth in 1976. “Those who celebrated Mahlangu’s hanging in 1979 were mistaken. History tells us so,” she said. Khoza said that since publicly breaking ranks to speak out against President Zuma and other ANC leaders, she had “once more become an exile”. However, ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu warned against compiling lists of ANC MPs who are suspected to have voted against the President, saying this was a “dangerous ploy to incite mistrust and initiate a witch hunt”. Khoza had received death threats ahead of the vote, which she posted on social media. Meanwhile, Free State ANC provincial chairperson Ace Magashule has called on members who voted against Zuma in the no-confidence motion to voluntarily resign from the ANC. Magashule made the comments at a cadres assembly in Parys at the weekend. “We don’t want to expel you from the organisation,” Magashule said. “We want you to resign willingly because we don’t want to force you out of the party. “Those who voted with the opposition during the  motion of confidence have brought the ANC into disrepute,” he said. “It would be make sense if they leave because clearly they don’t want to be here,” he said. Meanwhile, ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize, who addressed the same Free State gathering, urged the party’s rank and file members to put their differences aside in the interests of party unity. “The year of OR Tambo must culminate in a show of unity. Let’s sharpen our weapon of liberation. “The ANC does not belong to individuals but to the continent of Africa.
Factionalism must be stamped out. We join for no benefit. ” REFILWE MAGASHULE