Bidvest Wits have been a low-key team for years, leaving all the song and dance routines to top teams like Orlando Pirates, Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns.Their PSL title and MTN 8 success last season has seen a shift from their formerly quiet approach to a more commercial one, aimed at fully engaging the media and providing their fans far better access to the now star-studded outfit. This new approach was kicked off with their player unveiling at their Sturrock Park training base in Johannesburg yesterday, where superstars such as former Everton, Tottenham Hotspur and Sunderland midfielder Steven Pienaar, Daylon Claasen, Slavko Dankovic, Bokang Thlone and 17-year-old Kobamelo Kodisang were presented to the public.And it is the return of South Africa s star Pienaar from England that is being not only heralded as the biggest coup of the transfer market, but also a signal of Wits newfound ambition, direction and slick transfer policy. For Pienaar though, the first immediate challenge is to bond with players who have seen him as a role model because of his success overseas.He will be tasked with being the squad s catalyst to defend their league and cup titles and perhaps add more to the trophy cabinet, given their participation in the CAF Champions League. Speaking to the media for the first time since his move, Pienaar outlined some of his responsibilities ,with mentoring the team s youngsters right at the top of the list. I am going to be a coach to some of them. We have a lot of midfielders and I will always try to help, Pienaar said. They work really hard and I like that. I will give my input as a senior player because I like to give advice. I will tell them to be composed and not to look at me as someone who is here to help if they need me and so far, they have been great. At 35, Pienaar understands that he cannot do some of the things he did when he was in his 20s and that means having his workload carefully and meticulously managed to avoid injuries that were a nightmare for him in his last years in England.Wits coach Gavin Hunt also hinted that he will not use Pienaar in every match simply because he is a big name with overseas experience. Pienaar feels that will work for him and could mean playing in a different position that will not demand of him to run a lot. I am old now. I cannot go down the wing that much. But you can be intelligent in how you play as a No 10 because you can drift, play off the line or inside behind the strikers. For me, I can play across the midfield and that it is just about where the coach wants to play me. I will just be happy just to be on the field. Pienaar could make his Wits debut in the MTN8 quarterfinal against Golden Arrows at Bidvest stadium next Friday night.&nbsp;-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE AND TOKOLO MOKHESI|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za