Allegations of a game of chicken being the cause of a fatal taxi crash in Dalton that claimed the lives of five schoolchildren, are being investigated by the police and the department of transport.The crash between two taxis on Friday could have been caused by the drivers playing the game, transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said after a visit to the Dalton taxi rank on Saturday.The game, known as playing chicken involves drivers veering into the oncoming lane, only to try to pull back at the last minute.In this case it was a little too late for the scholar transport driver, who allegedly gambled with the lives of the pupils, leaving six dead and several others critically injured, with one pupil being placed on life support. There are many allegations. Some people are saying the drivers were under the influence of alcohol and the other allegation is about the chicken game which we view as a dangerous game which is not allowed. It is unacceptable. Whenever these accidents happen the normal charges would be culpable homicide. If negligence is found to be the cause then those responsible must face murder charges, Kaunda said.The accident is believed to have occurred about 4pm in the uMgungundlovu area, not far from the R614 about 55km from Pietermaritzburg.The two taxis collided head on.The high speed collision caused one of the taxis to split into two while the other vehicle overturned and caught fire.Netcare 911 spokesperson Nick Dollman said when paramedics arrived at the scene five teenage pupils, between the ages of 13 and 18, had already succumbed to their injuries. Paramedics attended to 11 other victims at the scene. Three were in a critical condition, five had serious injuries and three had minor to moderate injuries. One of the victims that Netcare 911 attended to was placed on a ventilator and helped by an advanced life support paramedic before being transported to hospital for further urgent care, Dollman said.The accident has been widely condemned by members of the public and the Dalton Taxi Association.Chairperson Sakhe Mchunu said drivers had been warned against the chicken game, saying nothing had ever been achieved by it except putting passengers s lives in danger. It is more than just a game, its madness, drivers madness, insanity. We do not encourage bad driving and are very strict with them respecting the rules of the roads, Mchunu said.The names of the deceased will be released later this week.SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULOsibongisenim@thenewage.co.za