Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela feels his handling of the club s new signings has gone fairly well, despite none of them making an appearance in the opening two matches of the season.With Chiefs failing to emerge victorious in those two matches after losing 1-0 in the MTN8 against SuperSport United and drawing their league opener against Bloemfontein Celtic 1-1, many have questioned why the new arrivals have not featured. Komphela decided to stick to the same team which brought nothing to the club in the last two seasons, much to the disappointment of Chiefs supporters. If you look into how we moved into the season, the Carling Black Label Cup was a good game, good performance. We missed a lot of chances but the team played well, Komphela said. Then MTN8, we played well but missed a lot of chances, about 13 and then we suffered a setback. And then as you go on, nothing is wrong yet they are still okay. Bhongolwethu Jayiya has played, Joseph Molongoane, William Twala, and Edmore Chirambandare have all played. Maybe the new inclusions, Philani Zulu played in East London, Khotso Malope has played and maybe those are the only two who were on the bench against Celtic where one would say we could have introduced them. I think we are still handling it fairly well. You don t want to compare your players, they are different, but you would want to say that if one player goes out, the new inclusion must be the same or even above.That s what you hope for. You don t want to say this one is better than the other one because they are different. If you have to look at Zulu compared to Tsepo Masilela, they are completely different apart from experience. But to say when Zulu goes in and when Tsepo s legs are no more, Zulu must take the game to the next level. Following their shaky start in the season, Komphela could make changes to his line-up when they meet SuperSport United in the league match at FNB Stadium tomorrow. I think the only thing we need to monitor when we play SuperSport is when we are on attack, we stay balanced at the back because as soon as they regain possession they hit on the direct counter attack. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za