Leave out Pitso Mosimane bemoaning the new Absa Premiership kicking off with a cup competition. From the four clashes that took place at the weekend, fans across the country can get excited of what promises to be a good season and with good reason. Take the first MTN8 quarter-final clash between Bidvest Wits and Golden Arrows.The goals scored, the football quality and stars on display were just too great not to read too much into. Then there was SuperSport United slaying Chiefs, with Jeremy Brockie the sniper, and Cape Town City winning. Maritzburg United also showed that the new season will not be an easy one when they beat a star studded Sundowns team.The four clashes brought about talking points, arguments and just which players are to watch this year.The New Age Deputy Sports Editor Mmasekepe Matsebane looks at stars who have just joined new teams looking to add some spark, steel or in some instances, flair.Oupa Manyisa Sundowns from Orlando Pirates Those who speak better English than most will say that one swallow does not make a summer, but watching Manyisa join proceedings at Lucas Moripe on Sunday and immediately gain control is something to be excited about. Even the fans were appreciative, screaming Aaaaace every-time the player full of quality attributes got on to the ball. Mosimane admitted that in Manyisa, he has more than just a midfielder. He is expecting goals, tackles, positive tricks and leadership. This makes the former Pirates captain one to watch.Steven Pienaar Bidvest Wits from Everton Yes, he does not have the pace any-more, but Schillo has never been short of magic moments. Gavin Hunt, the Bidvest Wits coach knows that in Pienaar he has a quality midfielder who can carry the team. The only worry for Pienaar is the injuries that have given him problems, but he has continued to show that class is permanent. Thamsanqa Sangweni Orlando Pirates from Chippa United There is not much to be said about what Sangweni can do. At first, the midfielder was though to be joining to replace Issa Sarr, but with Manyisa gone, the player may as well find himself in the Manyisa role, carrying the big responsibility of making the Buccaneers tick. Just like Manyisa, he can striker it better than the former Pirates captain, and he is even more robust in the tackle. From Chippa and AmaZulu, those who followed Sangweni knows that losing pisses him off. That is why he will be massive for Pirates.Ayanda Patosi Cape Town City from Lokeren To South Africans, Patosi feels and comes across a bit like Elrio van Heerden. A player who showed glimpses of quality. A player they only got to see from a distance. Finally, Patosi is in the PSL and what better team than a counter-attacking Cape Town City that thrives on wing-play and a creative number 10? In Teko Modise, they have someone to slip quality through balls, in Aubrey Ngoma, they have a quality winger and in Patosi, they got an explosive scoring winger. Add Lebogang Manyama, you have a killer combination.George Lebese Sundowns from Kaizer Chiefs George has come in to replace Keagan Dolly, because we have been lacking balance that Keagan providing us. And George can score goal. He scores, hey? These are the words Pitso Mosimane said after landing his long time target. One of the biggest signings of the window and once firing in a Sundowns line up that has the smart Sibusiso Vilakazi, the mercurial Khama Billiat, Hlompho Kekana, Percy Tau and the dazzling Themba Zwane, Sundowns promises to be a force. Sure, Lebese will have to up his game, but the star quality he brings cannot be ignored.