The DA-led coalition will unravel if the United Democratic Movement (UDM) follows through on its threat to pull out if Mongameli Bobani is not reinstated as deputy mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay today.The DA-led coalition needs the support of one councillor from the opposition ranks to be able to convene a council meeting on its own and pass budgets bylaws and other finance-related items as a 61-member majority is needed.As things stand, there is a 60-60 member split which constitutes a hung council between the coalition, excluding the UDM and the opposition. The DA has 57 seats ANC with 50 EFF with six UDM with two. Cope ACDP United Front AIC and PA have one each.At Thursday s council meeting the effects were apparent as the DA ACDP Cope and PA could not authorise amendments to the budget of the last financial year as required by law because the opposition and UDM refused to support it.The different political parties felt the budget changes must be debated further at committee meetings.However the amendments must be approved by the council by Thursday which is the deadline for the municipality to submit its annual financial statements to the auditor-general.Failing to do so will have tens of millions of rand declared as unauthorised and irregular expenditure. This would have a negative impact on the municipality s audit outcome for the 2016-17 financial year.In relation to the effects of being one vote shy of an outright majority mayor Athol Trollip said: There were a number of items we couldn t pass on Thursday because the UDM collaborated with the EFF ANC and AIC. The appointment of an executive director for safety and security could not be done. There is a vacancy there and we need someone. There were also four items to standardise spending in the last financial year. We couldn t pass those. In fact Bobani the EFF and the ANC rejected all of them. That will have a consequence in terms of having an audit qualification for this financial year. Refilwe Magashulenews@thenewage.co.za