Samsung Electronics South Africa has said that the new Galaxy Note 8 is expected to launch in South Africa on September 22. Customers who pre-ordered the device from the Samsung website will start receiving it from the September 15 onwards, and it will hit retail shelves from September 22, Justin Hume, chief marketing officer, Samsung Electronics South Africa said. Hume said the Galaxy Note 8 will be available in the country in three colour variants namely, midnight black, orchid grey and maple gold. When asked if the Note 8 borrowed most of its features from the S8, Hume said: Quite the contrary, the Galaxy Note series pioneered the larger screen and S Pen when it was first launched in 2011. Over the years these key features have evolved alongside our consumer s needs and wants and have reached a milestone through the Galaxy Note 8 which also features Samsung s first dual-camera setup. He further said the 6.3 inch Quad HD+ Super AMOLED infinity display screen is bezel-free and enables consumers to use the device on an edgeto-edge display with an increased flat surface area. This makes it outstanding for watching videos, note-taking as well as running multiple apps simultaneously on one screen.One of the key features of the Galaxy Note 8 is the new and improved S Pen that has a sensitive 0.7mm tip, which is also IP68 water resistant. Using the S Pen, the Always On screen allows you to write up to 100 pages of notes without unlocking the phone, as well as edit and pin notes to the Always On display. Another diverting S Pen feature is Live Message, which allows you to share animated texts or drawings across platforms that support animated GIFs.The Galaxy Note 8 has two 12MP rear cameras which come with optical image stabilisation on both the wideangle and telephoto lenses. A live focus feature lets you control the depth of field, which means you can adjust the bokeh effect both in preview mode and after you take a picture. While the dual capture mode sees both rear cameras take pictures simultaneously, one close-up shot from the telephoto lens and one wideangle shot showing the whole background, then both versions are saved.An 8MP Smart Auto Focus frontfacing camera finishes things off for selfies and video chats. Samsung Electronics SA said the recommended retail price for the Galaxy Note 8 on cash option is R18 499 while the contract pricing will be available from network partners. The Galaxy Note 8 will be available through all network carriers as well as through national retailers, Hume said.-INDIE BOYCE|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za