A FIFTH suspect in the connection of the KFC assaults, which took place at Pretoria handed himself to the Sinoville police station in Pretoria, accompanied by his lawyer.Police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said they were still looking for the outstanding sixth person, who has been on the run following the incident last Wednesday.The two fled after the arrests of their four alleged accomplices on the day of the incident. The four, M Harding, 22 O Miller 20 RJ Nel 39 and DJ van Rooyen 21, appeared in court on Friday and Harding was granted bail.The three are due to return to court next Friday for a formal bail application. The six men allegedly attacked a couple, Jacob and Dudu Sono. The incident has since gone viral on social media.The video shows the couple being violently attacked by six white men at a KFC drive through in Kolonnade north of Pretoria. Police were called to the scene and arrested four of the men when a firearm was drawn and used to intimidate the couple.Three of them have similar cases pending against them. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation expressed disgust at the incident and praised the police for their swift work.It called for harsher sentences for hate crimes. The foundation said the attack was a clear sign of both racism and sexism in society.KFC has condemned the attack and said it was working with the police to identify the suspects. Meanwhile, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula tweeted that the suspects were linked to a number of similar attacks in the area.Mbalula congratulated the police on their swift response in arresting the alleged racist attackers. South Africa is a developing country in its quest to resolve the national question.Our forefathers have collectively agreed that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, black and white. Therefore, no race must ever have a false notion of thinking that their own race is superior to the other.The path we have chosen as a country remains the correct one, no matter the difficulty we might face as a nation. United we stand, divided we fall, Mbalula said. KUTULLO MADISHA kutullom@thenewage.co.za