COSATU national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla has warned that the increasingly burgeoning list of ANC presidential hopefuls was breeding a “cult of personality” in the succession battle for the governing party’s presidency. As the race for the ANC throne ahead of the party’s December elective conference has gained full traction, ANC lobby groups supporting their preferred candidates to lead the 105-year-old movement were creating an all-or-nothing campaign to advance their narrow interests, Pamla said. “The organisation is actually cultivating a culture of a cult of personalities. Just look at the factions inside the organisation. “This is what they are grappling with. They’re supporting their own people.” He lamented an individual-centred ANC leadership election campaign that placed the interests of presidential candidates and their lobby groups above that of the party.
“They locate their arguments around individuals. It is a danger.” Pamla’s comments come as the frontrunners for the ANC presidency, the former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa hit the road at the weekend, blitzing the length and breath of ANC regions to deliver memorial lectures and cadres forums among others. They also used the occasion to keep their presidential ambitions alive. Ramaphosa at an OR Tambo memorial lecture in Braamfischerville on Saturday said rampant corruption at the height of the government held back development. At an event hosted by the Progressive Professionals Forum on Friday, Zuma lashed out at those within the ANC rank and file who criticised the policy proposal on radical economic transformation. Pamla said that with the likes of Baleka Mbete, Jeff Radebe and Mathews Phosa
among others having raised their hands to lead the ANC after its December elective conference, these candidates have never been directly questioned about what they stood for and what they would bring to the table. “The question not being asked is what informs these individuals aspirations. No one should get away with this nonsense.” -BONOLO SELEBANO