Tsepo Masilela and Innocent Maela have more in common than just the way they play. They both play for Soweto giants , Masilela at Kaizer Chiefs and Maela for Orlando Pirates but there is more to it.Despite both playing at left back, they are also paternal siblings. Maela, who made his debut for Pirates in their 1-0 victory over Chippa United, revealed that he and Masilela were brothers as they shared the same father but had different mothers. A lot of people don t know this. But Tsepo and I have the same father. It s just different mothers, Maela said. Obviously, the bond won t be that strong but we talk all the time and he has always been there for me. He is my role model and my inspiration and I thank him so much. Maela, 24, impressed in his debut at the weekend after creating the goal against Chippa United which was converted by Thamsanqa Gabuza in the first half. He was named man of the match afterwards. He spent last season on loan with Thanda Royal Zulu and was recalled to Pirates after helping Thanda to gain promotion to the PSL before selling their status to AmaZulu. When you go out on loan, you get hungry and you want to improve yourselves and that helped me a lot because I got stronger mentally. Now I m ready to compete for a position at Pirates, Maela said. He said he was enjoying working with coach Milutin Sredojevic and Rhulani Mokoena and he believed they would help him improve as a player. Best experience of my life you know, I have never worked with such quality coaches, you know they tell you that if you do well, you take all the credit but if you do bad, they will come in for you and they will take the blame. For me, it has been a life-changing experience. I hope and wish that I met them maybe six years earlier in my career. Maybe I would have been a better player by now. But everything happens for a reason. I m happy that I m finally working with them and I m hoping that they will help me improve and think ahead, maybe I can go far. Maela was one of the new signings who started on the night and said that he didn t expect to play so quickly at the club. I need to thank the coach for allowing me to play. It was not easy for him to choose me to play as an unknown at a big club like Pirates, but because he believed in me I had to not disappoint him.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za