STEVE Komphela s journey at Kaizer Chiefs has been more of a bumpy ride than a successful one. This season has already witnessed three losses and chants of Steve must go with missiles thrown at him at FNB Stadium after his side suffered a 2-1 defeat to SuperSport United.Godfrey Modiba and Bradley Grobler scored United s goals, while Gustavo Paez was on target for Amakhosi. Komphela is now used to the Steve must fall campaign as was the case last season following Chiefs poor run.As expected on Wednesday following their defeat to Matsatsantsa a Pitori, the side also responsible for their MTN8 exit, some Chiefs fans waited for him to finish his post-match interviews and started throwing missiles as he walked through the tunnel. There is one thing you cannot do, you don t bite the hand that feeds you, Komphela responded to questions about those supporters baying for his blood. You have to give them the utmost respect. With regards to my approach in the previous three years, I have always been diplomatic. It is respect. If you have respect, you will never say things that are reckless. The supporters were not impressed with Komphela s substitution early in the first half against SuperSport after Chiefs suffered an early blow with Eric Mathoho given a straight red card following a cynical challenge on Bradley Grobler who was clean through on goal.Daniel Cardoso was called off the bench as Komphela looked to patch the hole left by Mathoho s departure rather than sacrificing an attacker for the defender.But Komphela was adamant that the decision had proved correct as they made their way back in the second half and almost stole a draw. It looked crazy at the beginning. What happens on the bench is something special, you have to be there to understand, Komphela said. The sooner that happens (a red card) you ask yourself questions immediately on what to do. Do you take out an offensive player and put in a centre back, release Willard Katsande into the midfield or you leave him there to deal with things? It was clear that a crucial change had to be made. There is no way where you would compromise Hendrick Ekstein, Siphiwe Tshabalala or Bernard Parker, who I thought all did well. We as coaches have to take decisions based on what we see and what we saw was exactly what was happening. I thought the decision was right. In his third season at Chiefs, Komphela has a love/hate relationship with the fans, while the team s management nevertheless continue to show their support.It has been mostly an uneasy ride, with the ever impatient Amakhosi faithful impatient for victories, as recent seasons went by without anything to show in terms of silverware. It is club management who recruited players and Komphela s job has not been made any easier as the club didn t buy enough quality players.Supporters at FNB Stadium on Wednesday following their 2-1 defeat to SuperSport also displayed their anger at Chiefs manager Bobby Motaung who witnessed yet another defeat.Placards were held up bearing the words Bobby please sign players . Komphela has always had to work with what he has been given by club management since he arrived, when so much was expected of him.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza