The burden of responsibility to stop the Kaizer Chiefs v Orlando Pirates match in which two football fans died in a stampede belonged to the referee.This was stated by Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza in a press briefing yesterday as the country followed the tragedy, which claimed the life of football fan Prince Chauke and an as-yet-unnamed man. The stampede also left 19 people injured during the Carling Black Label Cup at the FNB Stadium on Saturday. It is believed that the crush occurred while the match was on, following a goal scored by Chiefs in the ninth minute.This prompted thousands of supporters who were still outside to rush to the gate. Khoza, alongside Chiefs chairman Kaizer Motaung, refused to answer questions by the media, ensuring a probe into what could have been done to avoid the tragedy or whether those in charge reacted accordingly, was shut down. Before you try to apportion blame on anybody, we need to gather all of the facts, Khoza said. The national commissioner will appoint a chairperson responsible for everything that happened. He must be the one giving the instructions, he s the one controlling any investigation. The responsibility lies with the commissioner, only the referee can stop the game. Khoza assured the public that the match had been played under full compliance with not only the SASREA Act 2 of 2010 but also the Bernard Ngoepe Commission s instructions that came about following the 2001 Ellis Park disaster, in which 43 fans died during a match involving the two clubs.The act provides, among other clauses, measures to safeguard the physical well-being and safety of persons and property at sports, recreational, religious, cultural, exhibition, organisational or similar events held at stadiums and other public venues. The two clubs applied to the league for permission to host the event and that permission was granted on condition that all legislation was adhered to, in particular, the Safety at Sports and Recreational Events Act 2 of 2010, Khoza said. It s important that a joint investigation that is fair and impartial be initiated. The game was not stopped because we had to abide by safety and security regulations. We are asking now for patience to investigate all the facts to see what preventative steps could have been taken. We are waiting for a report so that when we answer questions we must give proper answers because lives have been lost. We are learning every day because we want to avoid these things happening as much as we can. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage. co.za