Recent suggestions that Kaizer Chiefs midfielder George Lebese wants out of Kaizer Chiefs have been rubbished by coach Steve Komphela.The attacking midfielder is believed to have told his bosses he wants to leave for greener pastures, with Mamelodi Sundowns looking to acquire his services. Lebese is believed to have been dropped from the Carling Black Label Cup squad against Orlando Pirates and the Premier s Cup match against Chippa United at the weekend because of his request to leave the Soweto giants. But Komphela insisted Lebese was still committed to the club and said he had a one on one with the winger, guaranteeing him he still had a future with Amakhosi. In any situation, commitment is key in everything. For you to get the best out of what you doing whether you are writing or reading, are commitment will take you through, Komphela said. If you are half-committed there is not going to be a result. It is going to be half results. Lebese is committed, there is actually more conversation we had with Lebese that the two of us discussed and we will ask but where does this come from? But understanding the nature of the business and the nature of perception and opinions, you can t stop people from saying things. This is not the first time that Lebese, who still has a year remaining on his contract, has been linked with a move from the club. Early last month, the unsettled midfielder tweeted that all he wanted was to play football and where his opportunities would come from did not matter. Komphela has claimed that he loves all his players and that Lebese was no exception. I love all the players I work with, sometimes certain things come and I don t respond to things coming, Komphela said. But I go to the person affected by the comments so that clarity is there and that he understands. Sometimes it is painful when you are put in a compromising position that is completely out of your character. The coach also shed some light on Chiefs Argentinean trialist Jonathan Philippe, by saying that he was yet to make a decision on the player who was once on the books of Argentina side Boca Juniors. You can t judge him too soon. He has been out of action for some time and we had him for training for 50 days, it is not easy, Komphela said. So he is not at the same level and we must be patient with him. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za