A mining analyst says there could be three more years of court action if the mineral resources department and mining companies don t find enough common ground over the mining charter and come to a workable agreement.Meanwhile, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane was criticised by a judge on Friday for failing to submit an answering affidavit on the matter brought by the Chamber of Mines regarding suspending the issuing of new mining and prospecting rights. Zwane withdrew the moratorium to suspend the issuance of new mining and prospecting rights on Thursday night, before the hearing on Friday.Judge Ramarumo Monama said Zwane showed disrespect to the Constitution and the court for not availing himself or submitting an answering affidavit. The minister s conduct tends to undermine South Africans and we are giving him 14 days to do the right thing, Monama said. Mamokgethi Molopyane, a mining and labour analyst, says Zwane is paying hardball with the industry. The moratorium was more of a tit for tat. The proper solution is for both parties to strike common ground. They must agree to one or two things to restore confidence in the industry, she said. Fractures on mining policies are a big concern. For example, the finance minister ordered Zwane and the Chamber of Mines to go back to the drawing board to find a solution over the mining charter while on the other side President Jacob Zuma and the NUM support the charter. This is disturbing, she said.Molopyane said if parties are not coming together, we are looking at two to three years of more court battles . The minerals department said in a statement late on Thursday that it would not go ahead with its proposed moratorium on new prospecting and mining rights, which Zwane had proposed last month.Zwane met Sibanye Gold executives on Friday to express his concerns about layoffs at the company, which is restructuring in a move that could affect 7 400 employees. Rivals AngloGold Ashanti and Anglo American Platinum have in recent weeks said a combined total of 18000 jobs were on the line. Unions have expressed concern over the job losses at a time when the local economy has sunk into recession and had its credit rating downgraded to junk by two of the three main credit rating agencies.The mining sector is beset by policy uncertainty after the government unveiled new black ownership rules while depressed metal prices and soaring costs have led to the spate of job cuts.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za