Yesterday pupils of Dweba Senior Secondary School in the Eastern Cape were over joyed with the hand-over of the R42m school built as part of the Asidi programme.The school is one of 134 schools that have been built in the province.The objective of Asidi is to eradicate the basic safety norms backlog in schools without water, sanitation and electricity and to replace those schools constructed from inappropriate material (mud, asbestos) to contribute towards levels of optimum learning and teaching. The Schools Infrastructure Backlog Grant funds the Asidi portfolio.Eastern Cape department of basic education media liaison Albert Gumbo says the impact of Asidi is far reaching. He says it is providing infrastructure that exceeds the minimum norms and standards for educational facilities in South Africa. The Asidi programme is a national one and it has been doing very well across all provinces. However, there were challenges encountered. In the Eastern Cape the rationalisation and re-alignment programme has slowed our progress, Gumbo said.He said that there had been much progress in the province and there were more challenges such as the issue of the roads, especially during rainy days, but they would continue to work hard to reach the goals set.Gumbo says in rural and other economically depressed areas, it is a significant development for communities who constantly refer to Asidi schools as universities .Asidi schools are helping to restore dignity and pride for people who had gone far too long deprived of facilities that are taken for granted elsewhere. This is a reflection of the democracy we speak of in South Africa.Grade 11 pupil of Dweba Senior Secondary School Wendy Komana is excited about the new school. She says it all seems like a beautiful dream. She says the school is perfect. Members of the community and our parents are all present and are celebrating. Previously we did not have a library, now we do and we have computers. Other children from other schools will envy us because our school is beautiful, Komana said.She says she is very grateful and thankful to the government for assisting them. She says that her grades will improve because she will have more time to spend on her books at the library where there is electricity.Meanwhile, Neziswa Rasu, a teacher at the school, shared the same excitement as everyone present at the hand-over of the school.She says she is happy that there is electricity and students will be able to put in extra time on their school work without the worry of it getting late and dark.Last year Asidi delivered newly built schools with the official hand-over of Mawonga Primary School in Qumbu, Eastern Cape on June 10.The new Mawonga Primary School was another successful delivery of a state-of-the-art school built under the Asidi programme.The school, located in the Mhlontlo municipality of Qumbu, is fully furnished with a science laboratory, a media and resource centre, Grade R and nutrition centre and was built at a cost of R20m.SISANDA MADWANTSIsisandam@thenewage.co.za