DAISY Mbuli, 80, who has been living in Zamimpilo informal settlement next to Riverlea since 1981 has been waiting for her RDP house for 13 years.Mbuli is originally from Ermelo in Mpumalanga and has been on the waiting list since 2004. She said she was left out as people she applied with were awarded houses in New Canada and Fleurhof. I live alone here and it is not safe.When it rains I have to get out of the shack because it fills up with water. I have to stand until the rain stops. And my shack is built on top of a mine shaft so it can cave in at any time. It is painful for me because I feel like I have been robbed, she said.She said she lives in dire conditions although she voted thinking that she would get a better life. The elderly woman was one of the residents who embarked on a protest in the early hours of yesterday in Riverlea.The protesters set alight a Rea Vaya bus station on Main Reef Road and also blocked roads with burning tyres and rocks near Riverlea. Some traffic lights were also destroyed along Main Reef Road and motorists around the Roodepoort and Soweto areas were advised to find alternative routes as protesters caused major traffic.Police had to use rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse the protesters who were damaging infrastructure. Most residents said they were promised to be moved into new houses last year but the department of housing in Johannesburg had failed them.Patrick Mulaudzi, 32, a resident at Zamimpilo said he had been living in the area for 10 years and he was struggling to apply for other houses because he is already on the waiting list. It is bad living here. We are always told we are on the waiting list so we can t even apply for other houses.We have proper papers showing that our houses are there but they are not allocating them to us. Houses are being vandalised before anyone can even live in them, he said. Another elderly resident living in the same informal settlement said she knows that her house is built but when she consults the municipality she is told that she lives in a squatter camp and must wait like everyone else.When asked why they damaged infrastructure, residents said it was the only language that the government understood. We woke up at 2.30am and torched the Rea Vaya bus station due to empty promises. We want our houses.We are tired of living in a squatter camp without proper sanitation. We want the member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for housing to come and address us, he said.The department of housing s spokesperson, Buntukazi Xuba, said there was a project called Pennyville that catered for beneficiaries from Zamimpilo, so people from Zamimpilo had received houses before. What then transpired was a reinvasion of Zamimpilo which led to the current status. We are also catering for the people on the ground at the Fleurhof development.The MMC has received the allocations list that will be presented to the community for transparency, she said. She said the MMC will also be meeting with the leadership of the community later today.DIKELEDI RAMABOPA news@thenewage.co.za