Move over Babes Wodumo, the country s first white Queen of Gqom music, Lil Red has arrived.The Sandton-born former R&amp;B, hip hop artist recently spoke to The New Age about her transformation from a dancer to a rapper and now to Gqom Queen and how she was literally captured by the catchy Durban-based sound. I started off doing R&amp;B and hip hop and then fell in love with the Gqom sound and its culture and over the last year have had an opportunity to explore this sound from Durban, which resulted in a collaboration with DJ Tira who is the founder of Gqom music and loved it. This experimenting with the sound has resulted in a new single, You Lie, which was done with DJ Tira. The song she says was recorded right in the heart of Gqom music in Durban, where this sound emanates from. It was such an awesome experience working with Tira and Naaq Music both of whom are talented musicians. I spent a lot of time in Durban. Tira took me along to performances and exposed me to a big section of the market. .She describes the sound as a fusion of R&amp;B and house on a Gqom beat. It is produced by Prince Bulo from Afrotainment. She says the sound is very different from what she recorded in her earlier days. The song is about deception and how young people are told lies about themselves on a daily basis. There are many lies young people are faced with. They are told they are not good enough and are put under so much undue pressure. So the song encourages young women to not believe these lies, she said.Before taking on the Gqom sound, this 21-year-old artist perfected her art for dance, working with the likes of rapper Da L.E.S. As a professional dancer, this young Gqom whizz also took part in Latin American dance competitions around the country and overseas.She even went as far as competing in world championships in France, but says music has always been a part of her. She said she was initiated into rap by one of Da L.E.S. s producers who asked her to sing, and the rest, as they say, is history in the making of Gqom impact. Music found me and says her foray into Gqom music scene will give the industry a shock factor that it needs.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za