FORMER soccer greats who were part of the Bafana Bafana team that won the Africa Cup of Nation in 1996 were recently honoured at a function held at the Sun City resort.The players said that they feel so special, blessed and proud to have played for the national team at the time saying it was not only about soccer but for the love of country.Speaking on remembering their good old days at the occasion to mark their induction into the South African Hall of Fame during the prestigious special gala dinner on Sunday, the Bafana Bafana legends described their times at the national team as special.Neil Tovey, a former Bafana Bafana captain, said to play for the national team at the time was the best thing that ever happened to him. I was so fortunate to play for Bafana Bafana because most of the players were brilliant and the competition was high both in the country and on the continent. Playing for Bafana Bafana made us understand it was no longer about us but our country and representing it and how best it should be represented, he said.Tovey also remembers lifting up the trophy alongside the great former president, Nelson Mandela, at the FNB Stadium. We played as a collective and the huge support we received from South Africa in the entire tournament was so unbelievable. The defining moment for me was when we lifted the trophy with our Tata Madiba. I was so proud of myself and the country, he said.Another player, Lucas Radebe, was an outstanding defender who played at the Leeds United football club and also came home for Bafana games.Radebe remembers wanting to respond to national duties even when injured. Playing for Bafana Bafana was so special for me because every time I was called to perform national duties I would jump left right and centre, happy to represent my country. I would even force myself to come during an injury with the mind wanting to play but the body refusing because of injury.This to me was strong love and the passion we developed in playing for our nation, he said.Pilemon Masinga, who scored some of the crucial goals to make Bafana Bafana win the tournament in 1996, also remembers and appreciates his times at the national team. We played as one team and what drove us was the supporters in the entire country who came to watch us every time we played for our national team. I will never forget these moments in my life and today I am honoured and thankful for people who put together this day in the beautiful North West province, he said.Former Bafana Bafana coach Clive Barker, who was in the forefront of driving the national team to win the African National Cup tournament, also recalled the massive support he was getting even from former president Nelson Mandela. We were so dedicated to the national team and winning to us was the only option looking at the overwhelming support from South Africans. Nelson Mandela was supportive because he would even call us on the day of the game and topple that by coming to the stadium, that was so amazing to us, he said.Chairperson of the South African Wall of Fame Johnny Burge said they wiuld continue with the legends programme to empower other young people working with the government. To continue their legacy, these Bafana Bafanas will be on the road in the country to inspire and empower other young people on the soccer field. They will be driving in the South African Wall of Fame 22 wheeler roaming exhibition and state-of-the art academy truck throughout SA, he said.KAGISO METSWAMEREprovinces@thenewage.co.za