Scoring goals seems to be a problem for Kaizer Chiefs recently having netted just once in two matches, with the goal coming against Bloemfontein Celtic in a league match on Sunday.This is a problem that s not new to the club, with midfielder Siphiwe Tshabalala finishing as the club s top goal scorer last season. And the club are yet to sign a striker capable of solving the problem. They rely on Gustavo Paez and Bernard Parker for goals but both are yet to get off the mark this season and this could be a concern for coach Steve Komphela. But Parker insists the goals will come as he feels he is beginning to form an understanding with strike partner Paez. The goals are there, we scored in the Carling Black Label Cup. Against SuperSport United in the MTN8 and we had so many chances, Parker said. Is just that the ball didn t reach the back of the net. But it was a good attempt, we hit the post three times and their keeper made good saves. In our last game against Celtic, there was a goal from a set piece but we didn t get many opportunities. Parker has partnered with Paez since the Carling Black Label Cup against Orlando Pirates and they gave a glimpse of hope when they combined to score the only goal in the 1-0 victory. But since then, they have not able to find the back of the net. We are gelling, especially with me and Paez. If we can get Siphiwe Tshabalala at his best, I think we will have more power, Parker said. We are both hard workers, we run 10-11km a game. We both run hard and it also reminds me of my years at Kaizer Chiefs when I used to play with Knowledge Musona, Kingston Nkhatha and Lehlohonolo Majoro. If you have a striking partner that is sharing the responsibilities, we will definitely share goals among ourselves. From what s happening right now, we are looking good and I just wish that Paez can show the country what he is about and also maybe score some goals and hopefully get called up for his national team. Parker and Paez will hope to have their scoring boots on when Chiefs meet SuperSport in the PSL match at the FNB Stadium tonight.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za