Benni McCarthy has set the bar high in the PSL for overseas returnees. McCarthy kicked off his professional coaching career with Cape Town City this season after spending years overseas in a well decorated career.He returned to South Africa and won the treble with Orlando Pirates five years ago. It is this path that Bidvest Wits midfielder Steven Pienaar wants to emulate this season. Pienaar joined the PSL champions in the off season from English side Sunderland. He s been following the achievements of McCarthy. Benni came back and he did well and won all the cups that were available, Pienaar said. For me, that s the bar I want to reach but it is not going to be easy and obviously, I don t want to compare myself with him. He was in a good team and won things with a good coach. We have got a good team here as well so let s see and hope we can do the same. First, there will be a lot of pressure on us to defend the league title and we are all up for a challenge and we are looking forward to it. With McCarthy in charge of City, a team that Wits play tomorrow in the league opener, Pienaar said he would love to get one over his old friend. I m looking forward to it. He is a big brother. I have to get one over him. We all want to win, obviously and we will still play each other in the MTN8 so it is good and it will also be good for me to go to Cape Town. We know what we are going to expect and the way Benni wants to play. It s going to be an interesting game but they are coming here and we need to make sure we don t make it easy for them and take it from there. The former Bafana Bafana captain got his first taste of PSL football since his return from England when Wits defeated Golden Arrows in the MTN8 on Friday after coming in as a sub late on a match.But he feels that he is still far from regaining full fitness. Obviously, I still need to work hard at training to get my fitness back. So I just need to get games under my belt and we will take it from there. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za