National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete yesterday promised to do the right thing regarding her decision on whether next week s no-confidence vote in President Jacob Zuma will be through a secret ballot or not.Mbete s latest comments on the matter come against the background of intense pressure from opposition parties and some civil society organisations for her to pronounce on the matter.Speaking on the sidelines of a Women s Month lecture in Soweto yesterday, Mbete said that in light of the submissions received from political parties in Parliament on their preferences for how the vote of no confidence in Zuma would be conducted, she would apply her mind judiciously to the issue at hand. What I m willing to say to the people of South Africa, as members of Parliament, as your representatives that you sent to Parliament, trust us, Mbete said. Mbete s comments come as attempts by opposition parties to persuade ANC MPs to vote Zuma out of office intensify.Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was the latest target yesterday when DA leader Mmusi Maimane challenged Ramaphosa to walk the talk and support the anti-Zuma campaign. Mbete also reflected on her presidential ambitions.She said that one of the reasons for her meet and greet with community members yesterday was to get their approval for her to lead the 105-year-old liberation movement after its December elective conference. It s a little bit of all of those. As politicians, we are supposed to serve communities. We are supposed to interact with different sectors of society, Mbete said.Regarding the recent ANC national policy conference in Johannesburg, Mbete said secretary-general Gwede Mantashe s diagnostic report should be regarded by the ANC members as a mirror to reflect on the party s state of internal affairs. The diagnostic report is a serious socio-economic political mirror in which we look at ourselves. It gives us the truth, both that which is positive but also those things that are not very positive, she said. However, Mbete argued that the ANC had a well-established culture of reflection and self-correction. In the ANC, we have a culture of being honest. You can t strengthen yourself if you don t acknowledge those things that are weaknesses. It is up to us to solve those things by acknowledging our problems and talking about solutions. BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za