South African children s wear designer and founder of Soapbox, Kristin Masters, made strides in the US last week when her creations were spotted on the red carpet in New York for The Glass Castle film premiere.The Glass Castle features upcoming child star Olivia Kate Rice who wore one of the Soapbox dresses for the occasion.Soapbox was born in 2014 and is a line of luxury occasion dresses for young girls aged one to 16.Masters was born and raised in Johannesburg. When she was 21 years old, after studying a degree in Fashion in SA, she started her own clothing label called Garnish.Masters said that Garnish had transformed into a bridal label and they have been designing and manufacturing bespoke, couture wedding gowns for the past 15 years. After having my own child in 2012 I started thinking about the children s apparel industry and how I could best use my skill and expertise in this exciting and fast-growing arena. In 2014 Soapbox was born. Our dresses boast exceptional quality in design and manufacturing, she said.She said all their garments were designed and manufactured in her factory in Johannesburg. Our dresses are all handcrafted and hand-beaded by my amazing team of women who have all learned their exceptional skills from their mothers and grandmothers. Soapbox strongly believes in empowering women who are true artisans of their craft, she said.Masters said it was so rewarding to see her hard work realised in something like this. I dream really big all the time. It s what drives me. To see Olivia wearing my dress on the red carpet was so unreal and exciting. It was a moment for me to be proud of what I have accomplished thus far and another big push to pursue the goals I have set for Soapbox internationally. Olivia is one of a few Hollywood celebrities that we have had the honour and pleasure of dressing over the last couple of months and we certainly are not stopping there. We have had the pleasure of dressing her sister Isabella Kai Rice when she released her film Unforgettable with Catherine Heigl earlier this year. We also dressed Alyssa Cheatham who plays Will Smith s daughter in Collateral Beauty, she said.Masters said she believed the thing that sets her brand apart from other labels is the unique hand beading and handcrafted embellishments that are a signature look of the line. These dresses are not mass produced in a factory in China, each bespoke dress is lovingly designed and made start to finish by us. Our dresses are magical and totally non-traditional in design and colour, something that is not easy to find, she said.dikeledir@thenewage.co.za