AFTER surviving a record 8th motion of no confidence, President Jacob Zuma has come out to say the decision taken by the so-called “rebel” ANC MPs who voted with the opposition benches in the motion of no confidence, didn’t come as a surprise because the country was under onslaught. Addressing a crowd of ANC members in attendance of a cadres’ forum hosted in the Free State at the weekend, a vibrant and confident Zuma said he understood that the traitors were fuelled by ulterior motives which came as a result of “a large amount of money that has been poured in to destabilise South Africa”. “I know we are under attack, no matter how bright and eloquent (some)people are, I know that and I often have a heart to heart with myself just like Jesus and say please forgive them Lord for they know not what they do,” Zuma said.  Zuma also questioned the loyalty of the ANC tripartite alliance partners, especially the SACP, which has constantly made loud calls for the president to vacate his office. He said that he would have preferred the cadres forum to be hosted in the absence of the media so that he could “pour it all out” about all the happenings around the ANC and its partners, fearing headlines in the media. “The issue of the unity of the alliance, whoever thought that one day the alliance would say the kind of things they are saying? No one. Why? On the day our friends are not here I will tell you.” Prior to the motion of no confidence last week, the SACP echoed the calls that Zuma was no longer the suitable person to occupy the highest office in the country, calls which were heavily backed by another alliance partner, Cosatu. The president also said the money being used against the country had turned the credible politicians he used to know against him and the ruling party. At the weekend, one staunch critic of Zuma, Makhosi Khoza, who is believed to be one of the ANC MPs who voted in support of the motion, again criticised Zuma’s leadership. Speaking at the Duke University Menell Media Exchange Conference hosted in Johannesburg, Khoza described the ANC under Zuma as “patriarchal and intolerable”, before she broke into to tears crying about how her family had been coping with the death threats. “If there’s one thing that breaks me, it’s the pain my children are going through. “But I won’t stop, it’s for them and for everyone. That is all I can say,” a tearful Khoza said.  AKANI MANGENA news@thenewage.co.za