South Africa s major banks are under fire over alleged misconduct in attaching and selling the homes of defaulters at lower market prices. At least 219 people have been left destitute through the practice, with the banks facing a R60bn law suit.Advocate Douglas Shaw dropped a bombshell after he filed a court application in the Constitutional Court on behalf of 219 people left homeless after the banks repossessed their properties without following proper channels. This came amid pressure on the government to step up efforts to appoint a judicial commission into the impact of banking practices on poor South Africans.The same banks had come under a barrage of criticism over the massive payments made to top executives of between 40 and 80 times more than their average employees. For example, Standard Bank last year paid its top six executives a combined R209m in salaries, bonuses and other perks. Standard Bank chief executives, Ben Kruger and Sim Tshabalala, received total pay of nearly R45m each.Observers and trade unions said this is a million times the pay of an ordinary teller working at the bank. The same lenders stand accused of plunging people deeper into poverty and destitution. Banks implicated in the scandal of attaching and selling the homes of defaulters at lower market prices involved Absa, Nedbank, Standard Bank and FNB.Shaw, who is originally from Scotland having moved to South Africa in 2000, has extensive and wide experience in banking law and told The New Age on Friday that he had a winnable case. The R60bn law suit claim against these four major banks is roughly what the four major banks make every year, and it won t affect their balance sheet at all. But this will worry shareholders that banks can t blindly do damage to people. Shareholders will start to govern the executive directors behaviour going forward, he said.He said the practice by South African banks was five times greater than overseas banks when it came to attaching property due to failure of servicing monthly payments. In most parts of the world, when you have to sell a house in execution, you sell it for at least 90-95% of its value, he said. In South Africa, the average is 50- 60% or 40% of its value, which often wipes out that person s whole savings, and then the banks have often got the cheek to come after that person for the shortfall and the bond as well. The latest case sought to establish whether SA s law of sale in execution, whereby properties are sold at a public auction held by a Sheriff of the Court was unconstitutional. For example, the court papers referred to a case in which a bank attached and sold a property thought to have been financed by a R300000 loan, when the actual loan amount was only R30000. Some observers labelled this as possibly being the largest banking fraud in SA s history and that it is a total onslaught against the poor . Penelope Hawkins, a leading consumer expert, said either way, the distressed consumer loses out. Many consumers don t have the wherewithal to pay for such a long court case process. Managing director of the Banking Association Cas Coovadia insisted that the industry body had not yet seen the court papers. Standard Bank said it was aware of the application and awaited formal service of the papers at its physical address. We have appointed external counsel with the intention to oppose the relief sought. Any allegation that Standard Bank has acted inappropriately will be investigated and dealt with, the bank said.Absa said sale in execution had always been a last resort for the bank. When a customer falls in arrears on their home loan account, Absa endeavours to immediately get in touch with the customer to start a process to remediate the situation through the use of an array of approved solutions. Attempts to get comment from the Reserve Bank, national Treasury and the National Credit Regulator were unsuccessful. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za