SA s four major banks have little room to increase fees at the lower end of the market as a result of pressure from smaller rival Capitec, a report released on Friday said.This indicates continued competition in the market for personal transactional bank accounts this year. Capitec has low banking charges for both low and middle income people, compared with rival lenders Absa, Nedbank, Standard Bank and FNB. Economics researcher at the Solidarity Research Institute (SRI), Gerhard van Onselen, said the banks cannot allow the gap between the bundle accounts, marketed at middle income groups, and the cheaper accounts to get too big. Otherwise they run the risk that clients may shift to the cheaper options or simply move to competitors, Van Onselen said. Absa s financial results showed recently it lost 300000 clients in the past year, while capitec gained 400 000. In the low-income and basic banking space, judging on fees alone, Capitec is narrowly beaten this year by Absa s transact account, FNB s Easy Account and Nedbank s pay-as-you-use account, Van Onselen said. However, when the interest paid by Capitec is taken into account, Capitec is still, but just barely, the cheapest account. With that being said, Absa s transact account is now a truly compelling proposition for clients who rarely if ever hold more than R2000 in their account, he said.The Solidarity Bank Charges Report showed that there have been large decreases in the real cost of transactional banking across the board. Considering the flagship accounts of the four major banks, marketed at clients with middle-class income and sophisticated banking needs, the reports also showed that Standard Bank s elite plus account is no longer the cheapest option among these bundle accounts. The elite plus account by Standard Bank is now surpassed by Absa s gold value bundle account and Nedbank s savvy plus account. After doing away with withdrawal fees for cash at retailers, Nedbank s savvy plus account is competitive at this level this year for clients that do not wish to bank at Capitec for any reason, Van Onselen said. -NONHLANHLA MASEKO|business@thenewage.co.za