Food retailer Shoprite has responded to the statement made by the Minister in the Presidency Responsible for Women Susan Shabangu who condemned Shoprite for their actions about the arrest of eight employees suspected of theft. Following reports of the alleged ill-treatment employees by Shoprite in Cape Town where Seven female workers, including pregnant a woman, are reported to have been arrested and publicly humiliated for allegedly stealing at the store. They were allegedly handcuffed and exhibited to the public for hours. In a statement issued by Minister Shabangu, she expressed strong condemnation for the inhumanity of Shoprite s actions. She called upon the management of Shoprite to drop the charges against the seven women. Any form of violence against women, be it physical, emotional and financially, is not acceptable and has no place in our democratic country. On top of that, these women have families yet Shoprite continues to exploit them by paying them slave wages of R2400 a month.&#8221; However, Shoprite has since rejected the statement. Shoprite rejects statements made by Minister Susan Shabangu yesterday (30 August) about the arrest of eight employees suspected of theft in one of the Group s 2276 stores. The arrests were the result of an internal investigation into multiple incidences of theft at Shoprite s Pelican Park store, said the retailer &#8220;The arrests were the result of an internal investigation into multiple incidences of theft at Shoprite s Pelican Park store, Shoprite said in a statement. The workers were also alleged to have been victimised for taking tips, meanwhile, Shoprite said cashiers in line with global retail practise, are not allowed to receive tips and it is against the retailer s employment policies. Shoprite has accused the Minister of having not made contact with it to verify the inaccurate information about ill-treatment and unfair action against the perpetrators which is being reported in the media and would therefore engage with her to present the facts surrounding the matter. Furthermore, Shoprite has referred the matter to the police and the workers have subsequently appeared in court as part of the judicial process. -TNA Reporter 