In the eyes of the public there is a champion in Parliament, an oversight body that demands public money is not wasted on fruitless or corrupt activities.That body is called the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) and is chaired by the African People s Convention s Themba Godi. Last week Scopa showed Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini that reputations or political seniority count for nothing when it comes to accountability as it looked at the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa).Tomorrow Scopa, as part of its quest to get answers around Sassa and social grants, will listen to Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.But who is Godi and what are the principles that drive him and Scopa? To get to Godi s office in Parliament, one has to wend one s way past the entrance that is left unused because of building operations, walk past builders, follow the signs and head for a temporary entrance. It s a bit of an adventure to stay on track.In his office, Godi is as relaxed and poised as he is when he chairs Scopa meetings. But his words have an edge that those who abuse the public money should not avoid.He said: Scopa is not just an administrative process. It s also an oversight process. We fought for freedom and got levers of political power we must use these to change the lives of our people.Scopa becomes very strategic and central in continuing the struggle of the people. I do the work with all the passion in me because it s a platform where I can serve the interests of our people. It s not about how I shine or about how I look. When you do Scopa work it s a continuation of the struggle. To Godi, Scopa is the protector of the public purse. SARS collects the money and hands it over the government. Scopa comes after SARS and asks how the money is used, he said.Traditionally, the challenge of leading Scopa goes to an opposition MP to ensure the ruling party does not direct the committee s deliberations from the chair.As chairperson Godi is caught between the opposition s unbridled search for answers, an exercise that can often come at the expense of the governing party, and the ruling party s MPs who lately have shown an appetite to make Scopa bite and bark harder than before.Dlamini s appearance before Scopa a week ago to answer questions about the threat to the payment of social grants to 17 million people saw Godi at his most unflappable. It s up to the committees of Parliament to exercise their constitutional obligations and hold the executive to account. There was a lot of hullaballoo whether she would come or not. I was steadfast that it is a constitutional obligation. Even when the minister came, the frictions and tensions that were there could easily have derailed the meeting, Godi said.His chairing of the meeting did not impress all. Some people say I was too soft on the minister. I had a meeting to run. The nation wanted to know what is happening, he said.Leading Scopa meetings gives Godi media exposure. However, it s not always mentioned that he is leader of the African People s Convention, a splinter group from the Pan Africanist Congress.According to Godi, the APC has built itself into a vehicle that can effectively articulate and carry forward the ideas of ANCYL co-founder Anton Lembede, PAC founder Robert Sobukwe, and AP Mda, a Youth League firebrand who left to help form the PAC. He said since 1994, leftist views have not been regarded as current. The national thinking is dominated by liberalism. Leftist ideas are more like your poor cousins. We need to make leftist ideas more commonplace. They re about changing the structure of social and economic relationships. The policies of the past 20 years have continued with the past. We want to break with the past, he said.Because of their plight, he said, poor people only exercised democracy when they voted. The fruits of liberation have actually been hijacked, Godi said.He said there could not have been full social transformation if 17 million South Africans were reliant on social grants. The poverty, inequality and economic exclusion has ensured that the majority of our population is kept going by social grants. Economically they re still outsiders. It s these outsiders that Godi wants to protect through Scopa.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za