EASTERN Cape farmer Xolile Dasheka is among the first black farmers to receive game as part of an Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency (ECPTA) game industry transformation programme.ECPTA, together with the Department of economic development environment and tourism, handed over eight cape buffaloes to Dasheka s Krompoort Farm.The buffaloes are among 260 animals to be delivered to three farmers in the province. Dasheka, 44, is a former traffic officer who said this was all a dream come true for him. I am so excited and this is a dream come true for me. I have always wanted to own a game farm.One of my dreams is to have many animals to attract tourists, he said. Dasheka was born and grew up on a farm but says he had never thought that one day he would be an owner. I left my job as a traffic officer as I was more passionate about farming, so I decided to follow my dream.I started farming in 2006 with cattle, he said. He was among 21 black people who applied to be in the transformation programme. Nonqubela Mayothulo, of Miar Estate on the Wild Coast and the community of Middledrift, the Likhayalethu communal properties association, are the other beneficiaries.When the event started Dasheka received a donation from his mentor, Johan Cronje, who gave him black and white springbok as a symbol of black and white farmers supporting each other in growing and sustaining the game industry.On his farm Dasheka already had kudu, reedbuck and steenbok. MEC Sakhumzi Somyo, who delivered the keynote address at the event, said Dasheka s application was impressive. This ANC-led government is opening gates for black people and they need transformation.The time for the game industry to be known as something occupied by whites only has to come to an end.As the government it is our duty to create opportunities for all our citizens, Somyo said. He said he would like to encourage the beneficiaries to lead by example and help those who are still on the way up. All eyes are now on you as pioneers.Let others also benefit from you. Assist other upcoming farmers as you have made it. As you have received these animals, now you need to breed and focus on improving your businesses, the MEC said.Dasheka is one of three farmers who are beneficiaries of the R3m worth of game animals. Earlier this month the department delivered 30 black wildebeest, 30 blesbuck and 25 springbok to Dasheka.ECPTA CEO Vuyani Dayimani said the agency was delivering on their mandate to implement the national biodiversity and economic strategy in the province. We are so excited about this new journey.This will contribute radically to economic transformation. We encourage land owners to keep their land in good condition and make sure it is fenced, which is one of the things we look at in applications, Dayimane said.This handover was taking place for the first time this year and their aim is to make it an annual event. The game industry contributes R4.6bn to the economy of the province annually.LONDEKA DLAMINI