Northern Cape taxi operators have been encouraged by the transport, safety and liaison department to apply for operating licences from next month. This means that operators from that date may now proceed to file applications which will be dealt with through the normal channels using normal procedures, MEC Pauline Williams said on Friday. It is my hope that we will provide a smoother functioning application procedure, free from irregularities and one that is responsive to the need of our entrepreneurs, to actively take part in our provincial economy. We are further looking at promoting the development and training of operators, drivers and marshals, to improve service standards in the transport industry. We have started helping municipalities to develop integrated transport plans so that we can effectively deal with saturation levels in the industry. Williams said there were currently 3430 legal and illegal operating licences in circulation but they had made strides in reducing the backlog. We had a backlog of 1123 applications between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2014, and also dealt with a new backlog of 1127 applications between January 1, 2015 and May 31, 2015. She said all of those comprised of applications relating to minibus taxis, chartered, metered taxis, educational, staff and bus transport.Williams said they were in the process of finalising the withdrawal of irregular operating licences as well as updating the system on redundant operating licences. We will do this by training Provincial Regulatory Entity (PRE) members and improving access and system management controls to reduce risk as well as a commitment towards improving procedural compliance and efficiency, she said.Former MEC Martha Bartlett implemented the moratorium on the issuing of operating licences on June 1, 2015.The following provisions were set out in the Northern Cape provincial gazette on June 11, 2015 regarding the moratorium on the issuing of operating licences: The PRE would not receive any application for a new and/or transfer of operating licences to any routes and would not receive and decide on applications for operating licences. The moratorium on the granting of new or transfer of operating licences were to come into operation on June 1, 2015, and remain in operation until a date to be determined by the MEC and published in the provincial gazette. The operation of the moratorium on the granting of new or transfer of operating licences would not exceed a period of 18 months from the date so determined. Any application received by the PRE before the date of operation of the moratorium would be adjudicated and decided by the PRE as contemplated in sections 24 and 25 of the act.Williams said things would be different this time. She said they would be appointing new members of PRE, conducting education and awareness campaigns and would verify active and inactive licences.She said they had improved security features on licences, are training staff and members of PRE and will also be withdrawing illegally issued licences.nomusam@thenewage.co.za