THE ANC has for some, become a ride on the gravy train, former president Thabo Mbeki said yesterday. Speaking at the 14th anniversary celebrations of the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) in Johannesburg, Mbeki cautioned against people using the ruling party as a vehicle for amassing personal wealth. “So you join, so that I can become a minister, mayor, president or something. And the reason you want to access this power is for self-enrichment. There is no way of telling one is joining for this or other purpose,” Mbeki said. He said independent institutions that fought against corruption were only as effective as the people charged to execute their mandate. “There’s a level of political commitment. You need to fight corruption before you come to institutions. Effectiveness of institutions depends on the effectiveness of the people. “You can have beautiful institutions on paper, but if you have no people to ensure they work effectively, then you have a problem.” Mbeki, making reference to corruption in the government, said that it was always citizens who were left out of pocket because of the misdeeds of their leaders. “In the end the people who pay for corruption are the ordinary people. Over many years the ANC raised the problem, there were people who were joining the ANC to access state power,” he said. Mbeki, switching focus to the APRM, said that a great many African states were against joining it. He said that many African states feared that the APRM would function like ratings agencies. “So we better stay away so we are not rated by them. I know of countries that stayed away. It’s a misunderstanding of what the peer review mechanism was about. “But I think as countries began to understand that this mechanism for ourselves to support one another to achieve good governance so we are able to identify and say this is a problem in country X, what is it that we can do as Africans together,” he said. Mbeki, making reference to the recent wave of attacks against foreign nationals living in South Africa, said that the issue of xenophobia should be not be taken at face value. “There’s a long history in this country among Africans, of living together, working together with other Africans without fighting them. Now you look at the conflict in Pretoria two weeks ago, it takes a particular form. “Now let me talk about Pretoria, let me talk about Johannesburg. I am told around Johannesburg here, there’s 4045000 Ethiopians in the greater Johannesburg area. You never ever hear of an attack against Ethiopians.” TNA Reporter