WITH AB de Villiers having ruled himself out of the ongoing Test series against New Zealand, this is the time for Proteas batsman Temba Bavuma to prove to doubters that he belongs in the team. Some experts expressed doubts about Bavuma s place in the months before De Villiers ruled himself out of the New Zealand, England and Bangladesh series.At that time, Bavuma was struggling for form in the series against Sri Lanka which the Proteas won 3-0 and many were suggesting that De Villiers would take his place. Bavuma has now arrived in New Zealand in a better frame of mind and it showed when he scored his first half-century in four months at Dunedin.He also shared in a 104 run fifth wicket partnership with Dean Elgar to help the Proteas to 252 for 5 after he came in when they were 148 for 4. Bavuma said he has developed his own style of play to suit foreign conditions which are different to the bounce and pace he is used to in Johannesburg. The conditions are starkly different to what we have back home, Bavuma said. The wickets are a bit slower, not as much bounce, the wind is much more of a factor. I m adjusting my game to suit all those factors. The 26 year old is now planning to build from the 64 he scored in the first Test which ended in a draw when they meet again in Wellington tomorrow. I do feel that I m starting to get some kind of batting rhythm. I m quite happy that I managed to score some runs it has been a lean period for me, Bavuma said. One is never satisfied with getting 50 or 60, even though it is for the team and especially batting in the middle order. You want to get those big runs to put the team into a strong position. I ll hold on to the memory from Dunedin and keep enjoying the ride. Bavuma went to New Zealand having scored 21 runs in his five innings against Sri Lanka.However, four of his five Test fifties have been scored when the pressure is really on. Mentally I ve been up for the fight. Understanding that there will be pressure situations and try to find a way to get over those pressure situations. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza