Social Development Minister Bathabile will have to account to the Constitutional Court why she should not encur costs in her personal capacity due to her handling of the Sassa debacle along with Cash Pay Master Services (CPS). The court on Friday directed Sassa and CPS to ensure that social grants are paid from 1 April under the terms of the existing contract. The Judgement brings to and end weeks of anxiety on whether social grants would be paid, owing to the invalid contract between CPS and Sassa coming to a end on 31 March. Minister required to show cause why she should not be joined in her personal capacity and should not pay #SASSA @ann7 — Cecilia Russell (@CiciRussell) March 17, 2017 Spokesperson for the Social Development Minister Lumka Oliphant on Friday said that the Minister welcomed the judgement. “It has always been her belief that the Constitutional Court is the right place to hear this matter,” said Oliphant. Oliphant added that the Minister apologised for any anxiety caused by the handling of the matter. “For all South Africans, especially recipients of social grants, for all the fear and anxiety they have gone through in the last few days she would like to apologise for that,” said Oliphant. Chairman of Parliaments standing committee on public accounts (SCOPA) Themba Godi said they were ” eagerly awaiting ” the Ministers affidavit on why she should not be held liable. ” We welcome the judgement because it clears the way for a resolution of the crisis around the payment of grants. ” ” The judges seem quite knowledgeable and meticulous in their approach to the matter and in many respects confirmed the position we held at Scopa that this was a self created problem.” said Godi. During the week ConCourt Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng lambasted Dlamini for her “negligence”. “How do you get to the level where your clients make themselves look like they are incompetent and you can’t even explain how you got to this point?” Mogoeng asked Andrew Breitenbach who was representing Dlamini and Sassa. Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe on Thursday announced during a Post-Cabinet briefing that a task team has been established to “review the conduct” of Sassa and its administration to determine its level of culpability over the grants payment debacle. Radebe added however that Dlamini’s conduct was not part of the scope of the task team’s investigation. On Thursday President Jacob Zuma asserted that he could not punish Minister Bathabile Dlamini before she even makes a mistake. “You can’t say the Minister has failed when the date of her failure has not yet come. This is a premature debate,” Zuma said. -TNA Reporter