Half of the 508 bluetooth nyaope addicts have checked themselves out of rehab barely a week into their treatment.The department of social development said 206 of the drug addicts from Pretoria abandoned its sponsored programme.The addicts were undergoing rehabilitation at the Dr Fabian and Florence Ribeiro Treatment Centre in Cullinan, east of Pretoria, when they ran off, reportedly complaining of inhumane treatment.The addicts also said they could not bear the thought of several hundreds of patients being cramped in a small area, often with very little food to share among themselves.The addicts who get their high from dangerously drawing blood from another addict and injecting it into themselves, had been admitted to the rehabilitation centre last week.Last week, Gauteng MEC for social development Nandi Mayathula-Khoza, led a door to door campaign with the aim of creating awareness about substance abuse.On the day, more than 500 nyaope addicts volunteered to be rehabilitated and were subsequently taken to the treatment centre in Cullinan.A number of addicts that abandoned the centre, said they were only given medication that increased their appetite, with only small portions of food on offer.A nyaope addict from Soshanguve, Junior Mahlangu, 26, said there were no medical examinations performed on them as prescribed by the Gauteng provincial department of social development.However, the department of social development yesterday issued a statement dismissing the claims as malicious and unfounded.The department said Twitter and Facebook posts that suggested that patients at the facility were denied a place to sleep, cramped in one room, given incorrect medication, denied food and given one meal a day were unfounded.Facilitator and social worker at the centre AD Nodier said patients were self-discharged. Some of the patients could not deal with the withdrawal symptoms and decided to quit, he said.At the time of entering the centre, the treatment facility already had 200 patients and the centre is designed to accommodate 300 patients.Mahlangu said the facility had been stretched beyond its holding capacity. The centre was already over crowded. As a result, the patients were given an option to either remain or go home, Mahlangu said. They called buses to come and take us home. The treatment and living conditions are really bad. We slept on the floor because most beds were occupied. Some addicts who wanted to remain anonymous said because of overcrowding, the centre was patently unhygienic. Being drug addicts should not mean we have to be treated like prisoners, they said.The department said it remained committed to fighting drug addiction despite the setback. Such comments are extremely reckless and unfortunate. They undermine strides made in dissuading young people from exposing themselves to substance abuse especially the deadly bluetooth trend, the department said.The department said it did all it could to reduce the number of patients to acceptable levels.Spokesperson for the social development MEC, Mbangwa Xaba, said: Arrangements were made to move service users to other centres including Witpoortjie in Ekurhuleni. This was later reconsidered as it would impede family participation in the rehabilitation process. He urged community members to join hands with the government in the fight to defeat drug abuse.Hlengiwe Motaungnews@thenewage.co.za