AFRO pop trio Encore are making a name for themselves as a 2017 breakthrough act. The three-man group, made up of Kabelo Thomane from Kagiso, Keabetswe Kototsi from Atteridgeville and Peter Letswalo from Mamelodi, are encouraged by their recent first Metro FM Music Award nomination.Encore was nominated in the category of best group alongside Soul Kulture, The Soil, Durban Finest and Jaziel Brothers. Durban Finest made up of DJ Tira and Soxx eventually prevailed over the newcomers and other fancied groups who were in the running.Speaking to The New Age, Encore s band member Thomane said: Legends do not stop, they ask what s next, they are eager to prove once and for all that the nomination was no fluke. We promise our fans and those who voted for us even bigger things from us this year. We feel we should have been nominated in another category, particularly best Afro -Pop album, but we are happy with the nomination and what it has done for us as newcomers. We only released our debut album in September and we are encouraged by the positive feedback we are receiving from fans and the industry, Thomane said. The group s self-titled debut album has love as its central theme, with a touch of gospel. We sing mostly in Tswana and most of the songs are inspired by love, with only one gospel song featured in the album, he said. The group s hit single Lerato has been making the right noises for the trio, serving as a touchingly honest and moving ode to love made for lovers, while also serving as a source of comfort for those who miss their partners.The song, produced by Mondli Ngcobo, is stripped down to the bare necessities, with Thomane on guitar and vocals, Letswalo on piano and Kototsi on bass and vocals. As fate would have it, the three partners met while doing their Unisa music practicals at the SA State Theatre in Pretoria in 2009.Thomane says they forged an instant connection which resulted in numerous jam sessions held in rehearsal rooms. Before releasing the album we spent years performing live at weddings and other events. Kototsi and I met first and Lestwalo came later we formed the group and we continue to perfect our style. Though we all studied jazz, Afro-pop was a perfect fit for all of us and that is why we decided to stay with that style. Following their formation, in no time Encore found themselves on a big stage, performing at the Women s Day festival held at the Pretoria Showgrounds a few months later. This came after a friend who was one of the organisers called on them to join the lineup.The group has since featured at the Joy of Jazz festival in Johannesburg, as well as the Capital Arts Festival, Rendezvous and the African Jazz Night, all in Pretoria. They also earned some corporate gigs, performing alongside Vusi Mahlasela. We took a risk singing in Tswana but after seeing the positive reaction we have gained confidence and have no doubt that we are on the right path, says Thomane Kototsi says that their songs always strike a chord with music lovers. We never thought we would see people cry when we perform. People lose it and even ask us to perform Lerato for up to four times , he says. Thomane says things are looking up as more and more prominent live performances have come their way in recent months since the release of their debut album. We have gone from introducing ourselves and our music to having people sing along to our songs. We thank our fans for the support and great feedback they have been giving us, Thomane said.SIYABONGA SITHOLE