Following the Princess Clinic success, effective from April 1, the city of Joburg will be rolling out extended hours to five more clinics for extra healthcare for residents.This is in an effort to change the face of the healthcare system in Johannesburg. Quality healthcare is a priority for us because a healthy city is a working city, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said.He said this followed the success of the pilot project at the Princess Clinic and the necessary budget being allocated for this purpose in the recently approved adjustment budget.The five clinics where this will take place are: Freedom Park Clinic, Hikinsile Clinic, Randburg Clinic, Zandspruit Clinic and Albert Street Clinic. Following the successful implementation of a pilot project at the Princess Clinic in October 2016, the city has embarked on a process to introduce comprehensive health and social services at all clinics in the near future. In the past, the Princess Clinic, like all other clinics in Johannesburg, was only open from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. This was wholly inadequate to deal with the serious health challenges our communities are facing, Mashaba said.He said the Princess Clinic s operating hours were extended to provide services from 7am to 10pm, Monday to Friday, and from 7.30am to 1.30pm on weekends, including public holidays.From November last year through to February this year, a total of 10791 patients visited the Princess Clinic.The necessity of extending clinic operating hours is underlined by the fact that 2822 (26.2%) patients were seen during the extended hours. This means that nearly 3000 of our residents in the catchment area were able to access basic healthcare services, which they were previously unable to access. Through this project, we can ensure the poor and most vulnerable in our city are able to access quality, basic healthcare and ensure that all our residents have an equal opportunity to lead healthier lives. More staff have also been employed to ensure that the clinic is well capacitated during all its operating hours. He said one of the substantial advantages of this strategy is that everyone can get the care they need exactly when they need it. It is also a perfect solution for those who need a routine checkup or want assistance with managing chronic conditions without having to take a day off work or school. We have experienced a few emergency cases since the extension of operating hours at Princess Clinic. Patients lives were saved in two specific cases.A three-year-old boy was rushed to the clinic due to shortness of breath and was diagnosed with pneumonia and a pregnant woman in labour arrived at the clinic and received emergency care before being rushed to Rahima Moosa Hospital, he said.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za