A special ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting will be convened to strengthen existing measures to accelerate the process of land reform and redistribution.Briefing the media yesterday on the outcomes of the ANC s NEC meeting, the party s secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said land reform and redistribution policies had for quite some time now been an albatross around the ANC s neck.It is for this, he said, that urgent interventions were needed from the ANC to tackle the land question.He said if the matter was left unattended, it could fuel social unrest. We are actually going to agitate society on it and the other thing is tardiness on the implementation of land redistribution within the existing framework. We believe we can do more and our view is that we should avoid the tardiness, we must do what must be done. Achieving this will require that, among others, we endeavour to unite former liberation movements and the dispossessed black majority to whom the resolution of the land question is central to their existence, Mantashe said.His comments come against the background of the ANC having unveiled its policy discussion documents on radical economic transformation.The ruling party acknowledged that the equitable redistribution of land has been a thorn in its side since it took office in 1994.Mantashe, making reference to an upward trend of major court judgments against senior ANC leaders, said the ruling party was not against the judiciary, playing more of an interventionist role in governance . We are not allergic to the courts. If a particular minister has not done what they said they would do and that case ends up in court, the outcome of the case will be respected by the ANC. Judicial overreach occurs in instances where the executive and the legislature fail to deal adequately with matters before them. The NEC resolved to develop an accountability framework for all ANC cadres deployed in government. Mantashe also made mention of the ANC s bilateral meeting with the SACP.He said the ANC was concerned about the SACP airing its dirty laundry in public. The NEC expressed its concern about the unfortunate public utterances attacking the ANC from some alliance components. The ANC takes all matters raised seriously and will be discussing them with our alliance partners in bilateral and alliance meetings, hence the meeting with the SACP under way, he said.Making reference to ANC Nelson Mandela Bay chairperson Andile Lungisa s resignation, Mantashe said that the party s constitution was clear that members elected in higher structures should not stand for election in lower structures . Among others, members of the NEC were cautioned against being part of the fuelling of divisions in provinces and regions. This includes failure to correctly interpret and clarify ANC policies and decisions. As it relates to the ANC in Nelson Mandela Bay, the NEC directed the provincial executive committee in the Eastern Cape to deal with the matter in line with the NEC s decision. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za