SA Taxi, one of the country s few developmental credit providers, has signed a R100m financing agreement with the Small Enterprise Funding Agency (Sefa), the organisation said yesterday. The agreement with Sefa marks the first time a local state owned entity has partnered with us directly, SA Taxi capital markets director, Mark Herskovits, said. It is an indication of the value we offer to small business owners in the minibus taxi industry and our close alignment with the government s approach to improving land transport to the benefit of all stakeholders. It also acknowledges the importance of the role we play in supporting the recapitalisation and sustainability of the industry. This is particularly critical in light of the industry being a founding pillar of the country s public transport sector. Without the minibus taxi industry most people could not get to their places of work, schools or clinics. Each minibus taxi creates a ripple effect for job creation.It provides a livelihood for the owner and provides direct employment for drivers and conductors. In addition, there is indirect job creation via the taxi nodes, which are central marketplaces of goods and services including retail, and ancillary services such as vehicle washing and repair. SA Taxi finances more than 26000 of the estimated 200000 minibus taxis operating in South Africa and has empowered more than 42 000 small and medium enterprises (SMEs).SA Taxi is funded both locally and internationally by a diversified pool of debt investors. It therefore plays an essential role in linking institutional funding to SMEs. Sefa is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) and reports to the Department of Small Business Development. It is mandated to increase access to finance for SMMEs and cooperatives and help them create sustainable businesses.The agency enters into strategic partnerships that extend its reach to enterprises, with preference given to businesses owned by vulnerable groups, including women, black people, the youth and the disabled. Many people in the taxi industry are classified as unbankable and have very limited funding channels through which to access capital, Sefa CEO Thakhani Makhuvha said. The strategic public private partnership we have entered into with SA Taxi will therefore focus on developing and supporting black entrepreneurs using SA Taxi s existing tried and tested funding platform.-SELLO RABOTHATA 