HE COULD not succeed in his crusade for continental glory with Kaizer Chiefs, but now Stuart Baxter intends to make the most of his second opportunity with SuperSport United. While at the helm of Amakhosi three years ago, Baxter and his team were knocked out of the CAF Champions League early on and suffered a similar fate in the Confederations Cup.In fact, Baxter has never gone beyond the playoffs and without a doubt, the former Bafana Bafana coach aims to better his record in continental club competitions by making it to the group stages of the Confederations Cup. Matsatsantsa a Pitori are two matches away from the group stages as they are due to face Barrack Young Controllers in a playoff match. Every tournament that we are playing in we want to go as far as we can, Baxter said. It stretches the squad. We have many examples of how difficult it is to be competitive on the domestic front at the same time you have to be on the continental front but that s the challenge we have got and we are not complaining about it. United managed to turn around the first leg 3-2 defeat to Al Ahly Shendi of Sudan and won the second leg 4-0, which gave them a 6-3 aggregate victory . Tefu Mashamaite, Kingston Nkatha and Aubrey Modiba scored for Baxter s side while the other was an own goal. SuperSport are not the only local side in the Confederations Cup. Platinum Stars and Bidvest Wits are also gunning for places in the group stages.If the three clubs proceed to the next round, South Africa will have four teams competing in the group stages of continental tournaments. Mamelodi Sundowns have already secured their place in the Champions League group stages. This will be a first for SA as the teams have been accused of not taking the competitions seriously, with the exception of Orlando Pirates and Sundowns. The progress that the league is making is being reflected in that and it a reflection that South African football is improving, Baxter said. In the play-offs, Wits will face Smouha SC of Egypt while Dikwena will take on Ivory Coast s AS Tanda.sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi