Medical and legal experts have called for urgent steps to be taken to ensure a balance between the rights of patients and a crisis in the healthcare sector due to soaring malpractice lawsuits.The call emerged during a medical malpractice workshop in Sandton on Friday.Medical specialists are bearing the brunt of skyrocketing medical malpractice lawsuits, which are threatening to drive them out of work.Figures indicate that contingency liability for medical practice was estimated to be around R41bn last year in the public sector alone.Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi underlined the surge in cerebral palsy lawsuits. Litigation around cerebral palsy is particularly high now. But in reality, the rate of cerebral palsy is not increasing. Some of these cases are 20 years old, Motsoaledi said. What has changed is that people have discovered that cerebral palsy pays. We are about to reach a situation where lawyers and doctors become enemies. Motsoaledi said gynaecology, neonatology, neurosurgery and orthopaedics were increasingly being targeted. There were around 800 obstetrician/ gynaecologists in the private sector and 100 of them have already left the profession. It is becoming impractical for any private sector specialist to practice as an obstetrician in South Africa and we will see more and more private sector obstetricians leaving the field or referring their patients to an overburdened public sector for deliveries, Motsoaledi said.It s not the first time Motsoaledi has warned of a crisis if steps are not taken to rectify the situation.During a medico-legal summit in 2015, Motsoaledi warned of the crisis, saying it was not only in the public sector but also in the private sector.Deon Francis, partner at Hogan Lovells South Africa said: There is a perceived crisis in the medical fraternity today. A series of workshops have been useful in identifying where these problems lie. But the root causes of the problems have yet to be addressed and we need to develop effective solutions for both the short and long term. Mediation associated with legally privileged peer review was proposed among others.This in a bid to move from litigation with the aim to conclude cases faster and more cost effectively. The charging of contingency fees, capping of claims and payment of future damages by way of annuities were debated as possible solutions to the surging lawsuits. We have noted that cases of medical negligence are on the rise, costing provincial health departments millions of rands in malpractice claims. The most common complaint is about babies born with cerebral palsy, with as many as 68 of the 86 claims against Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto for babies who have cerebral palsy, Minister of Science and Technology and chair of the ANC NEC subcommittee on education, health, science and technology, Naledi Pandor said.Pandor said a team had been set up to investigate the increasing number of medical negligence cases.LERATO DIALEleratod@thenewage.co.za