A Nigerian delegation will arrive in the country at the weekend to tackle the sporadic xenophobic attacks on migrants.Nigeria s deputy president of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, will lead the delegation that will be here from March 12 to 16.South Africa s high commissioner to Nigeria, Lulu Mnguni, said he had been informed of the planned visit.Mnguni said the delegation would have discussions with South African members of Parliament and talks with South Africa s Nigerian community.Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and her Nigerian counterpart are also scheduled to talk about issues of bilateral trade and security in a meeting on Monday. They will try to find lasting solutions to the xenophobic attacks, Mnguni said.Tensions between the two African giants escalated after Rosettenville and Pretoria West residents burnt down houses belonging to some foreigners and accused them, especially Nigerians, of peddling drugs, running brothels and hijacking houses.Abike Dabiri-Erawa, senior special assistant to Nigeria s president, yesterday described relations between the two nations as strong. The bilateral relations between Nigeria and South Africa at the government level are stronger than ever before. The economic relationship is stronger than before and we hope it will get stronger. This is the third time Nigerians have been attacked in South Africa. We appeal to South Africa to protect foreign nationals. Not every Nigerian is a criminal, she said.Dabiri-Erawa said while the Nigerian government did not encourage its citizens to attack South African companies, South African businesses in Nigeria should play a key role in tackling antimigrant sentiment. We don t encourage attacking anybody. However, the multinationals in Nigeria like MTN, Shoprite and DSTV should embark on awareness campaigns in South Africa. We would not encourage reprisal attacks. We are appealing to our citizens not to attack foreign nationals, she said.This was after attacks on migrants in South Africa resulted in reprisals from the National Association of Nigeria Students. Association members attacked and looted MTN in Abuja.It also threatened violence on South Africans and the country s businesses in Nigeria.Militants in the Niger Delta have called on the Nigerian government to order all South African-owned businesses out of the West African country within 30 days.Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba, who came under fire for linking illegal immigrants to criminal activities in the city, yesterday met Nigerian ambassador Goldwin Adama about matters of xenophobia.ZODIDI MHLANAzodidim@thenewage.co.za