What started as a peaceful march against a lack of service delivery in Olievenhoutbosch south of Tshwane, ended in violence after residents stoned a councillor s house and looted shops yesterday.The angry residents took to the streets to protest against poor service delivery, crime and corruption.The protesters were granted permission by the Tshwane metro police department to protest until 12.30pm. Two shops were looted while the councillor s house and some journalists were stoned.Police advised the foreign shop owners to take what they could from their shops and leave the area since it was not safe for them.Some of the Somali shopkeepers opted to stay and guard their shops. The Somalis accused the police of failing to prevent the looting. They only come after everything is done. We lost many things, one shop owner said.Some residents said the looting of shops was wrong. We are fighting for houses, not to take or steal groceries. This is wrong and the people who are looting are the people who don t work, an angry resident said.Mohammad Omar, a Somali national, lost R280000 worth of stock after looters broke into his shop. A tense stand off later developed between police and residents who also used stones and tyres to blockade roads. Some residents said those who looted shops were opportunistic .Police had their hands full and resorted to teargas and rubber bullets to try and disperse the angry crowd. The furious residents demanded that the a local councillor be recalled with immediate effect, alleging corrupt dealings. We want him out. He has been giving away RDP houses to his friends. Many people are still on the streets. We won t sleep until we burn the councillor s house, a resident said.The R55 remained closed for a while as residents were expected to hand over a memorandum to the ANC s Gauteng provincial chairperson, Paul Mashatile. A memorandum of their grievances was handed to government officials but residents continued to protest. Our main problems here are crime and corruption. Just last month we had five people killed by a criminal, Selena Sehodi said.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za