By late yesterday, Kamohelo Mokotjo remained in limbo , with his eligibility for Bafana Bafana in doubt. But the FC Twente midfielder is likely to feature for South Africa in their friendly international against Guinea Bissau in Durban tomorrow.This after the Department of Home Affairs committed to pronounce on the matter by today, in time for the Bafana returnee to resume his international career. Mokotjo has been training with the national team throughout the week in preparation for the friendly match. But it has been unclear whether or not the FC Twente midfielder will face the West Africans in what will be a first ever match between South Africa and Guinea Bissau at Moses Mabhida stadium.The department were yet to receive clarity from their Dutch counterparts as to whether Mokotjo, who was born in Odendaalsrus in the Free State, was still a South African citizen. Home Affairs spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete said the department was busy establishing the facts about Mokotjo s documentation since he didn t apply for dual citizenship when he obtained Dutch citizenship in December. It s not a lost cause. He (Mokotjo) can still apply and motivate to the minister, who will make a decision based on his motivation. But we have been speaking to Safa officials to find a solution, Tshwete said. The opportunity for him to retain his citizenship is still there. That s what we are working on. This isn t the first of its kind in terms of sports people who have played or belonged to two countries.It s just a matter of the Department of Home Affairs ensuring that everything is done within the confines of the law. Hopefully we will release a statement on this tomorrow. The Mokotjo matter has all but dominated headlines more than the upcoming friendly itself, overshadowing coach Owen Da Gama s preparations.Da Gama, however, has hailed the spirit of the team as Bafana embark on a new journey following the Shakes Mashaba era. As the technical team we are delighted with the contributions of the new players. They ve fitted in well and I think that s testimony to the influence of the senior players. You can t see a difference between the younger players and the older players, it s like one team and everyone is being treated equally. Bafana come up against a team on the rise in Guinea Bissau, who made their Africa Cup of Nations debut in Gabon two months ago. They exited the continental tournament early, but shocked the hosts and scored one of the best goals by any side through Brito Silva.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za