Police are looking for six men who attacked, shot and injured two security officials and ran away with an undisclosed amount of money and cigarettes on Tuesday afternoon.Mpumalanga police spokesperson Brig Leonard Hlathi said the incident happened on Wednesday at 3pm. Six armed men attacked, shot and injured two security officials parked outside a tavern where a British American Tobacco (BAT) vehicle was delivering cigarettes, Hlathi said. One of the officials sustained injuries to the shoulder after he was shot twice while the other official was injured in the arm. He said the suspects then disarmed the injured security officials. Inside the tavern, the suspects accosted the delivery men and made off with three boxes of cigarettes, the BAT delivery vehicle s keys and an undisclosed amount of cash, he said.A white Ford Kuga, a white Toyota Quantum and a silver Volkswagen Polo with unknown registration numbers were used as getaway vehicles by the suspects. The injured officials were taken to hospital for medical treatment. The police launched a manhunt for the suspects and investigations continue, Hlathi said.The police request anyone with information on the suspects to contact Brig Obed Ngwenya at 082 565 6417.BAT trucks delivering cigarettes are regularly targeted by criminals around the country.In KwaZulu-Natal, a BAT VW Caddy was delivering cigarettes to a store in KwaCele, inland of Scottburgh, when the 31-year-old driver was held up by two armed men last year.The suspects made off with thousands of rands worth of cigarettes, cash and a cellphone.In Gauteng, two suspects were arrested after they robbed a BAT truck in Honeydew. The men held the drivers up at gunpoint, loaded the cigarettes into their own van and along with five other suspects in a blue Golf, fled the scene.The Flying Squad gave chase and the suspects in the van were caught at the intersection of Ontdekkers Road and Christiaan de Wet Road. No firearms were found on them but all the cigarettes were recovered. The other five suspects are still at large and are armed. In most cases police have not made any arrests.nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za