THE community of Lusikisiki in the Eastern Cape set alight two suspects who they alleged were terrorising residents around the small town. Four other suspects were rescued by the police who received information that gangsters who call themselves The Vampires, were apprehended and about to be burned alive by the angry community. It is said that the community poured petrol over them and set them alight. Visibility policing coordinator in Port St Johns cluster Fuzile Fotini, said they managed to rescue four suspects, but two were not so fortunate. We rushed there so that we could assist in arresting the people claimed to be the criminals. Luckily, when we arrived there, we rescued four of them who were being assaulted. We managed to take those people to the local police station, so that we can detain them and do some investigating , we succeeded on that, Fotini said. The community also marched to the local police station demanding police intervention in the fight against crime. The community poured petrol over them and set them alight. This weekend, three people were stabbed to death, while scores of others have been raped in Lusikisiki. This has prompted the community to band together to confront a troublesome gangster group. Rape cases of several young women from the TVET colleges in the area including a number of incidents of housebreaking and robberies, have been attributed to The Vampires. Community spokesperson Nontuthuzelo Berwayo, said they were being raped, robbed and murdered, yet no arrests were being made. Yes, a few have been set alight, but there are many of them outside there because they are being trained here in the village. What we need from our government is more police visibility and more vehicles because every time we report a crime, there are always excuses of shortage of personnel and police vans. We need answers from our government, crime is everywhere here, Berwayo said Community policing forum chairperson in Lusikisiki, Elizaberth Swartz, said residents have been reporting criminal activities to the police and have provided them with information that there is a house where the criminals are being trained and given muti, allegedly by a certain witch doctor, but no action has ever been taken. There is a witch doctor who is using and giving them medicines and she is known too she lives among the communities and has been identified but nothing was done about it. The people have been reported several times and they even provided lists of the gangsters but nothing was done about it so it pushes you to say, okay if you cannot charge him let me take the law into my own hands, Swartz said. It s not that I am supporting it, but I understand their point because they lose their mother, fathers and their belongings which they have worked hard for. Meanwhile, Eastern Cape police have condemned the burning of the two suspects. SABC News