Transport Minister Dipuo Peters has on Monday announced Nazir Ali as the Chairperson of the interim board at the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa). The announcement was briefing media following her decision last week to dissolve the entire Prasa board. “It is my belief that the termination of the board was the only way to end the disputes between it and the then acting GCEO,” said Peters. According to Peters, the interim board will be responsible for overseeing the affairs of the Agency until July 2017 when the new board will be finalised. “My decision to dissolve the board was to bring this matter to closure and restore good governance and ensure stability at Prasa,” said Peters. Peters added that one of the reasons she decided to dissolve the board was because she had on numerous occasions, directed the board to focus on service delivery issues, however the Board was pre-occupied with “side issues.” The Transport Minister on Monday also said that she had recalled the Acting Group CEO Collen Letsoalo to ensure stability at Prasa and was not a reflection of poor performance or corruption. Letsoalo was removed amid allegations that he had hiked his salary by 350%. “The dissolution of the Board has nothing to do with protecting Mr Letsoalo and he remains the Chief Financial Officer of the Dept of Transport,” said Peters responding to allegations made by Former Board Chirperson Popo Molefe. Molefe has promised to “challenge the Minister’s actions” of dissolving the board. The other interim board members announced by Peters on Monday include Tiyani Rikhotso, Frans Baleni, Ronny Mkhwanazi, Tiyani Rikhotso, Natalie Skeepers, Constance Maleho, Xolile George and a representative from National Treasury. #Prasa New interim board @The_New_Age pic.twitter.com/wYbH77YCiS — KellyJones (@kutulloMadisha) March 13, 2017 Meanwhile former PRASA CEO Lucky Montana tweeted his approval of the newly installed interim-board. Nazir Ali previously served as the Chief Executive Officer at the South African National Roads Agency Limited (SANRAL). At the end of August 2015, Ali saw his contract at Sanral extended for the fourth time since being in the position since 1998. According to SANRAL, at the time it was struggling with finding a “suitable candidate” to replace him. -TNA Reporter