The Constitutional Court has declared that Sassa and Cash Paymaster Services are directed to pay social grants from 1 April under the terms of its existing contract. The court ordered that the invalid CPS contract be extended for 12 months with the contract’s suspension of invalidity extended over the period. The judgement brings to an end weeks of uncertainty whether up to 17 million social grant recipients would receive their funds come 1 April. Handing down the judgement on Friday, Justice Johan Froneman stated that Sassa and CPS are “under a constitutional obligation to ensure the payment of social grants.” “Our order reflects that Sassa and CPS continue to distribute social grants for a period of 12 months,” said Froneman. The CPS and #SASSA agreement shall be monitored and file affidavits to the court every three months on the progress. @ANN7tv @The_New_Age — Cecilia Russell (@CiciRussell) March 17, 2017 The Constitutional Court also ordered that Sassa and CPS should ensure that the personal information of grant beneficiaries is not distributed to third parties and should only be used for payments of grants. Sassa had approached the court on Wednesday to grant it permission to extend the contract with CPS for between 12 to 18 months. Sassa had also submitted that the Auditor General and the Public Protector’s office should provide oversight of the extended contract. On Thursday CPS announced that it would require R194 million a month to disburse social grants for 2 years amounting to a total contract worth R4.6 billion. President Jacob Zuma on Thursday told Parliament that government was making sure that there would not be any interruptions in the payment of social grants. Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe on Thursday announced during a Post-Cabinet briefing that a task team has been established to “review the conduct” of Sassa and its administration to determine its level of culpability over the grants payment debacle. Radebe added however that Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini’s conduct was not part of the scope of the task team’s investigation. Meanwhile the Concourt on Friday has directed Dlamini to submit an affidavit detailing why she should not be held personally liable for costs related to the court case. Minister required to show cause why she should not be joined in her personal capacity and should not pay #SASSA @ann7 — Cecilia Russell (@CiciRussell) March 17, 2017 President Zuma in Parliament defended Dlamini against calls by opposition MP’s that he should relieve her off her position despite Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng lambasting Dlamini for her “negligence”. WATCH FULL JUDGEMENT : 