As Human Rights Month winds down, shocking details have emerged of a Limpopo grandmother allegedly selling two of her grandchildren for R10000 each as a ploy to enable another woman to get social grants.The father of one of the children made the shocking discovery after searching for his child for 14 years.The father (David) from Roodepoort claims to have been looking for his baby boy who he last saw when his son was only two months old in 2003.He says that his son was born prematurely and the mother, his then girlfriend, died. The baby was left in his care at Coronation Hospital and breathing problems worsened the baby s condition. When my baby was released from the hospital I contacted my girlfriend s mother, she came and took him with her to Ga Phaahla in Limpopo. We agreed that since I wasn t married to the mother I should pay for damages. I did so but she said the child was still too young to live with me and I would get the baby when he was older, he said.He said the family never did get back to him and he eventually lost contact. After 14 years of waiting, he managed to trace the family and went to visit his son in Limpopo. When I got there I found out that my son and his brother had been sold by the grandmother for R10000. She did not even deny that she sold the kids. I went to the police to get help but they claimed they did not know which charge to lay against the grandmother and the person who bought the children, he said. I have approached social workers and the family advocate but all in vain. My child is now 14 years old and has never seen his father and siblings. I want my son back, he said.When contacted by The New Age, the woman who had bought the children vowed never to return them. Leave me alone, David (the father) can go on and drag my name through the mud I don t care. We will meet in court, she said.The grandmother s daughter yesterday confirmed that the children had been sold to the woman who now benefits from foster care grants.She said that the whole matter made her angry because the woman who bought the children had only brought misery to the family. David has every right to claim back his child. The woman might have managed to trick the old woman into selling the kids but David is the rightful parent. This is not right, she said.She said that the grandmother gets the foster care grant and hands it over to the woman every month as part of the agreement.Adele van der Linde from Limpopo social development said that in this kind of case they would refer the matter to the children s court because the child was already 14 years old and old enough to decide whether he wanted to have a relationship with his father. However, we cannot throw out issues of the alleged child trafficking involved in the case, she said.news@thenewage.co.za