South African Fed Cup team captain Earl Grainger has started to bring Tennis SA s vision of developing and grooming young players for future duty of the tournament to life.South Africa are due to compete in the Fed Cup Euro/Africa Zone Group 2 tournament, which consists of eight countries to take place in Lithuania. The week-long tournament will take place on April 17-22 at the Siauliai Tennis School. In his recent team announcement, Grainger called on a strong side which is a mixture of young and experienced players.It comprises Chanel Simmonds, Ilze Hattingh and Madrie le Roux, the captain also included Makayla Loubser, 14, who ll be making her Fed Cup debut and has done exceptionally well to catch the attention of the national side selectors. She is the reigning U-14 national singles and doubles champion and is the holder of the U14 African Junior Championship singles and doubles titles.Her recent achievement is being selected for the ITF Grand Slam development touring team to Europe and she also helped the country to qualify for the U-14 World Cup in the Czech Republic. Grainger also said he hopes another junior, Linge Steenkamp, 16, will travel with the team and use the opportunity to learn as much as she can as she is the future of the country in the tourney.The captain described the move as the start of the new era in women s tennis in the country and that of Fed Cup. Both Makayla and Linge are extremely talented and warrant this selection, Granger said. As a captain, I will be looking at all the up and coming juniors and if they deserve selection to future teams they will be given the chance as we now need to build on improving our Fed Cup status and position on the world stage.I am positive they will benefit from this experience immensely. Grainger and TSA have a fiveyear plan to change and develop the face of women s tennis here. The captain hopes the players will be able to achieve a top two finish out of eight teams, a feat that will see them qualifying for Group 1. Chanel together with Ilze and Madrie will lead the team. They have lots of experience and have played many Fed Cup ties between them.The fourth member of the team, Loubser, is a real star of the future. Other teams are the hosts, Egypt, Denmark, Liechtenstein, Norway, Sweden and Slovenia. Two bottom teams will be relegated to Group 3.-Sithembiso Dindi|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za