With 19 days to go, social grants to more than 17 million recipients are back in limbo after a ministerial task team yesterday gave the thumbs down to a deal struck last week by Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and service provider Cash Payment Services (CPS).The task team refused to give the go-ahead to the department s rescue plan. This means there is still no new deal signed off. Dlamini has repeatedly given assurances that CPS and her ministry would reach an agreement to ensure grants were paid on April 1.In a further blow, Nehawu members working at the department and the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) embarked on a nationwide strike. A local news agency reported 6000 members were taking part. Cosatu expressed its support for the strike. According to the affidavit, the task team led by Minister Jeff Radebe, decided that current negotiations with CPS should be terminated and that fresh negotiations should be started .This will only happen if the national Treasury has given its prior written approval for a deviation from the requirements that Sassa invite competitive bids. The Treasury said it would not give the go-ahead for a new contract without legal backing from the Constitutional Court. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan is set to appear before Parliament s standing committee on public Accounts (Scopa) about the Sassa saga.The latest snag came on a day the Social Development Department filed its response to the ConCourt on the new contract deal between Sassa and CPS. Department spokesperson Lumka Oliphant the papers were submitted to the ConCourt electronically before the deadline yesterday. In the papers, the department wants the public protector and auditor-general to monitor the CPS deal.The spokesperson for chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, Nathi Mncube, confirmed the department had met the court deadline to clarify the CPS deal. The department was given until the end of business yesterday to provide the ConCourt with full details of the new grant payment contract with CPS.Among the questions was who decided on behalf of Sassa that it could not take over the payment of grants and from when this was the case. Last week the department and CPS said an agreement had been reached. The department argued that no other company had the capacity to take over the payments, with CPS saying there was no reason for the new deal not to be signed.Meanwhile, the DA has called on the public protector to investigate the relationship between Dlamini and CPS. This investigation will help shed light on whether Dlamini will either directly or indirectly benefit from this contract with CPS, the party said.-Lillian Selapisa|lillians@thenewage.co.za