The trial of Danish national Peter Frederiksen was again postponed due to legal representation issues in the Free State High Court yesterday.Frederiksen, 64, has officially parted ways with defence lawyer Howard Woolf.Unlike previous appearances where he has come to court to say he is withdrawing because he has not been paid, Woolf did not even show his face yesterday.The message was related to the judge by Frederiksen himself, before he told the court that he has been speaking to a lawyer from Pretoria who is keen to represent him. My Lord I have spoken an advocate from Pretoria who has showed interest in representing me. I have made arrangements for him to come and see me before the end of this week. I would therefore ask for more time to consult with him, he said.Frederiksen was originally represented by Woolf, but he ran out of money and was advised to seek legal aid.When he was granted legal aid he said he didn t trust the system. He then hired Woolf again and said his family in Denmark would pay him. But his family could only give him R50000 which wasn t enough to pay Woolf.He then went back to legal aid but when he returned to court he said he didn t want legal aid any more. He said he was thinking of selling his house to raise money for legal fees.The case was postponed and on the next court appearance he said he had decided to represent himself.But yesterday, he came with a different story.A visibly annoyed judge John Musi asked Frederiksen to provide state prosecutor Amanda Bester with contact details so they can verify whether his story is true or not.The court had to be recessed briefly to allow Bester to confirm the story.When she came back to court, Bester told the judge that indeed Frederiksen had contact with an unknown advocate but there was nothing substantial.Judge Musi told Frederiksen he had anough with his delaying tactics. Frederiksen I m going to postpone this matter as per your request. However, next time I see you here I want to see you with a legal representative or consider reapplying for legal aid. This is the longest pre-trial I have ever come across, so make sure we move forward otherwise I will force you to conduct your own representation. I can t take this any more, he saidThe case has now been postponed to April 18. Frederiksen was arrested in September 2015 after police raided his house in Langhoven Park, Bloemfontein. Small packets containing 21 clitorises and an assortment of tools used to slice off the women body parts were allegedly found in his freezer.He is facing a total of 59 charges including several counts of illegally removing human tissues.He is also accused of conspiring to commit murder after he was linked to the murder of his wife Anna Molise.Molise was gunned down in her home town of Maseru, Lesotho October 2015 a few weeks after Frederiksen was arrested.Police linked him to the murder of Molise who was expected to be the star witness in the case.He is also charged with illegally dealing in firearms, several counts of assault with intent to cause bodily harm and other counts of manufacturing and distribution of weapons.Frederiksen is also believed to be wanted in Lesotho for similar offences.MICHAEL TLHAKUDIprovinces@thenewage.co.za