The price of chicken, the main source of protein for South Africans, has risen 15% above the overall inflation rate, according to the Department of Trade and Industry.The consumption of poultry has soared, while imports climbed from 8% of total consumption in 2003 to more than 20% from 2010 to 2013. Giving a summary of the challenges facing the South African poultry industry in Parliament yesterday, DTI deputy director-general Garth Strachan said the surge in imports were mainly as a result of an increase in bone-in-quarters.These products were waste products in the European process and market structure . He said imports from the US were not the source of the crisis in the industry. Rather, it was caused by market dynamics because developed countries consumed mainly white meat and exported brown meat portions.Other contributing factors were increases in key domestic input costs for maize and soya, electricity and labour. Increases in imports, mainly brown main portions, which industry argues constitutes unfair trade practice, Strachan said. South Africa, he said, could produce whole chickens cheaper than most European Union (EU) countries, as well as the US.However, the key issue was the import of mechanically deboned meat and quarters, which were a significant import penetration. On dumping, he said the South African Poultry Association had complained to the International Trade Administration Commission about the dumping of chicken in South Africa.Following an investigation, antidumping duties were imposed in 2015 on chickens originating from the UK, the Netherlands and Germany. However, Strachan said: Manufacturing-led growth is critical. High economic activity and employment has a multiplying effect and the poultry sector is critical to this effort. The sector is in crisis and a wider range of further policy interventions are needed in the view of the government. Meanwhile, the suspension of Brazilian meat imports provide South Africa s red meat industry with an opportunity to capitalise in the short term, especially on the African continent where the country already exports a lot of red meat. This followed several countries this week banning imports of Brazilian meat after a scandal erupted in the meat industry there.Meat inspectors have been bribed to certify as healthy cuts that were either rotten or tainted with salmonella. South Africa along with China, Mexico, Chile, Japan, Saudi Arabia the EU and Hong Kong has refused to accept certain meat products from Brazil, where the government has shut three plants and suspended the export licences for 21 meat packing plants.The crisis could wipe more than 10% off Brazil s market share, opening a gap for other meat exporting countries. The value of red meat exports from South Africa increased from R791m in 2013 to R2.14bn in 2015 and experts said if this ban lasts for long, the country could take the opportunity to boost the figures.But Dr Simphiwe Nqgangwane of the National Agricultural Marketing Council said the expansion of meat production could not happen overnight. The space created by the ban will be filled by dominant players, he said.-Dennis Cruywagen and Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za