With the recent entry of a large number of new franchises, particularly in the fast food sector into the local market, and the proliferation of so many others in just about all industry segments it is no wonder that the sector contributes almost 12.5% to the country s GDP, John Baladakis said yesterday.Baladakis, former chairperson of the Franchising Association of South Africa (Fasa) said people should think of the queues around the block at the openings of Burger King and Starbucks, the arrival of Domino s Pizza and Krispy Kreme to realise this. The potential for these franchises to contribute even more, lies not only in generating increased sales of their products and services, but in the business to business opportunities between them. We have franchise operations in almost every industry sector, Baladakis, a proponent of buying local , said. If each of these businesses pledged to procure locally grown, produced and manufactured raw materials for their operations we could generate much needed revenue that would remain in South Africa, going to the fiscus and back into local business activity. Fasa has represented the interests and growth of franchising in this country for the past 38 years and plays an important role in fostering entrepreneurship, in the transfer of skills and in job creation. As more South Africans travel overseas and are exposed to international brands, so the demand for those brands here increases, offering many opportunities for new companies to establish themselves in this emerging market. South Africans are receptive to new products, especially in the fast food sector and the opportunities for the growth in new franchise names and outlets are extensive. For every shop, restaurant, business or office franchise that opens, the buy local message must be top of mind.From ingredients, to packaging, to shop fitting can be procured locally and have the potential to make a difference to our economy, Baladakis said, As a FMCG franchisee I would also like to see more commitment to the stocking of local goods and products in all other chain stores. To this end, I would like to make a clarion call to fellow retailers, franchisors and franchisees to join the government and manufacturing sector in supporting and promoting locally produced goods, Baladakis said.In its quest to be fully inclusive, Fasa, under the chairmanship of Baladakis, launched the Fasa supplier manual three years ago to assist franchisors and franchisees in their search for suppliers of specialist products and services.Especially for franchisors starting out, this could mean a shortcut to finding the best products and services that can help them develop their business without going through the process of searching for and interviewing good suppliers. Buy local to create jobs is our mantra, Proudly South African chief executive Eustace Mashimbye said, and so Fasa s message to members and all franchisees echoes our own. We are happy to have the support of such an important sector and hope that franchisees will understand how buying local assists in job creation and will support Fasa s call. -Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za