Yesterday just in time for the International Women s Day celebrations across the world, fans questioned local rapper, OKmalumKoolKat s apology following his 2016 sexual offence in Australia.In January 2016, the Siyasebenza hit maker was accused of having sexually assaulted a woman in Australia where he was invited to perform. He was then charged with assault with intent of indecency and assault with intent and subsequently served a one-month term in a Tasmania prison.Though he apologised on his return, the rapper has become an outcast and briefly took time out from music to reflect on the incident that almost ruined his career. His recent collaboration with fellow rapper AKA on the Caiphus Song which was released last week has put him back in the spotlight.On the weekend a City Press report revisited the rapper s sexual offence with the headline: AKA collaborates with convicted sex offender Okmalumkoolkat on new cover , this became a major talking point on social media prompting AKA to come to his fellow rapper s defence. That man owes nobody an explanation except for the victim, his own child &amp; his family, AKA wrote.The Durban born rapper tried in vain to once again apologise for the 2016 incident on International Women s Day through a brief statement. I am sincerely sorry that a woman felt violated on my account. I spent time in prison, serving a sentence given to my by the justice system, the rapper tweeted.But many of his fans saw this as a half-hearted apology citing the fact that he had said the woman in question felt violated on his account and not deliberately violated by him. One user @BlackThoughtVII wrote: Have you apologised to the woman you violated. It was not us and you did not violate her on Twitter. Next time drink responsibly. The rapper was forced to rephrase his apology: I am sorry I violated a woman. Meanwhile, as the world observed International Women s Day yesterday, Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa urged South Africans to continue supporting women from all spheres of life in order to reach their full potential.Taking to his social media page Mthethwa celebrated among others, seven-year-old author Michelle Nkamankeng and world-renowned artist Esther Mahlangu. The two women from generations apart have flown the South African flag high through their talents which have paved the way for future generations of women in the arts. Let us accelerate our efforts towards the full emancipation of women and the freedom of the girl child, Mthethwa said.He also reminded the nation of renowned artists like Miriam Makeba, Thandi Klaasen, and literary legends like Nadine Gordimer and Miriam Tlali, all of whom are among those who have conscientised our people and the world about our liberation struggle and whose music and writing also celebrate the power of women in changing their lives and the lives of others for the better .NONTOKOZO GXUMISAnews@thenewage.co.za