Communications Minister Faith Muthambi says the government targets 5000 people from Moretele local municipality to benefit from the National Development Plan so that they become agents of change in their communities.Those targeted are pupils, students, parents, school governing bodies (SGBs), education stakeholders and civil society organisations.Muthambi said that those who took education seriously would have a lot to look forward to as the government intensifies its commitment to put education at the centre of development.She said this when she addressed pupils, parents, teachers, traditional and political leaders and general members of the public at Lefatlheng Sports Ground in Moretele on Sunday. The attainment of Vision 2030 requires a special focus on the quality of early childhood development, basic education and higher education and training. I ll shout it out from the mountain top that education is a top priority of our government.The ANC led-government is investing heavily in quality education. We believe that if you empower the pupils through better access to quality and relevant educational materials, you will be able to fight the triple challenges of poverty, inequality and unemployment, she said.Muthambi said that parents and guardians have to make sure children devote time to education. As today s pupils, you have the full backing of the parents and you have teachers who are well equipped to be innovative in the learning and teaching environment. The future of South Africa is in education. Residents of Moretele, we urge you to embrace education for it raises ambitions and instils self-confidence and helps build a stable society, she said.The minister said drugs cannot be allowed to destroy the future of youth. We cannot allow our youth to wallow in the fumes of drugs and substance abuse and our girl children to engage in sexual activities before they realise their dreams. Substance abuse can lead to social ills and low academic performances. We have a responsibility to support organisations such as Love Life and build rehabilitation centres before we lose our youths to drugs. Muthambi challenged stakeholders to guide young people. Post-matric youth should receive guidance with post-school online applications for jobs, volunteerism, registration and applications for bursaries. Five entities that report to the Department of Communications, namely Icasa, SABC, the Film and Publication Board, MDDA and Brand SA showcased career opportunities in their respective fields. ICT has played a central role in young people s rise to prominence globally. It has helped them mobilise for their own issues. It has also given them a voice where there was none before and we want to encourage that, Muthambi said.Education and sport development MEC Sello Lehare also that education had been made an apex priority and young people should learn hard to become tomorrow s leaders.He reiterated the province s desire to continue improving its matric outcomes so that North West becomes the best in the country.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za