There was always talk among the Proteas players that they needed to avenge their famous World Cup semifinal defeat to New Zealand two years ago during the ongoing ODI tour.And with the series tied at 2-2 heading into tomorrow s winner takes all finale, this would be a perfect way for the Proteas to avenge that miserable day. New Zealand and South Africa will meet in the seriesdeciding match at Eden Park. The two teams have proved to be equal in the series with little separating them.Proteas captain AB de Villiers has urged his players to put on one of their best showings to make sure that they win the match after seeing New Zealand level the series on Wednesday. South Africa lost the fourth ODI by seven wickets after Martin Guptill starred with a matchwinning unbeaten knock of 180. There s a big final to play, there s a lot at stake, it s a big pressure game, De Villiers said. It would be great for us to come through a big pressure game like that, especially at Eden Park. We won the T20 and it would be great to win the ODI and finish this leg of the tour on a high. We haven t yet hit our straps as we wanted to in both departments, so hopefully, it will happen in the last game. Top ranked ODI and T20 bowler Imran Tahir has not had one of his best series, having claimed just four wickets in four matches. De Villiers feels that New Zealand have executed their plan to counter him well, but expects the Eden Park wicket to favour Tahir s style of bowling. They respect him a bit more, are playing him better and that sometimes happens if you have a match winner in your team, De Villiers said. We also look after some of their bowlers and are confident we can dominate the rest. They have a similar game plan against Immi, they really looked after him well on Wednesday. They took him on at the right time. But Eden Park s wicket is a bit quicker, Immi likes to bowl on quicker wickets. Wednesday s wicket was pretty slow, so even if you didn t pick him, you could play him. Most spinners like a pitch that turns quickly. -Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za