Background screening services company Managed Integrity Evaluation (MEI), detected more than 100 doctored degrees listing University of Zululand (UniZulu), ill-famed for allegedly selling fake degrees to thousands, as the source.MIE received more than 1300 requests from companies to verify qualifications from the university.MIE spokesperson Jennifer Barkhuizen said more than 8% of the checked qualifications were found to be misrepresented, inconsistent or fraudulent. Out of the more than 1300 requests received by MIE to verify qualifications at UniZulu in 2016, the discrepancy rate was 8.63%, Barkhuizen said. These discrepancies include misrepresented results such as a candidate being in the process of completing their qualification, rather than having been awarded their qualification. Major discrepancies include fraudulent results, involving candidates forging or altering their certificate deliberately, or never having been awarded the qualification in the first place. Last year, the university made headlines after being embroiled in yet another degree-for-sale scandal.A probe into the matter brought to light that more than 4000 people may have bought fake degrees from the institution in the last 20 years.Present and former students threatened on social media to reveal the names of those who reportedly purchased fake degrees on the university s two campuses in KwaDlangezwa and Richards Bay. This was not the first time the university was implicated in the scandal.In 1997, when the scandal was first unearthed, five university employees were suspended after it was found they had accepted cash to change the records of students.The employees made R260000 from selling 15 fraudulent degrees.In 2007, about 80 students were deregistered from the institution following revelations that they had no matric certificates and had bribed their way into the institution.UniZulu spokesperson Gcina Nhleko rwejected the allegations that there were students who might have paid for their academic degrees at the institution, saying that to date no specimens of the so called fake certificates had been provided. The series of ongoing coverage in mass media platforms is fuelling unfounded misconceptions and creating distress to a wide range of stakeholders internally and externally. We ascertained that the university s records are intact and if there is uncertainty regarding qualifications, the university should be contacted for verification, Nhleko said. In a progressive and responsive move the university has undertaken to verify the integrity of its system and academic transcripts. Preliminary findings have indicated that some individuals in question did not graduate from the university, therefore their certificates are deemed fraudulent and were generated outside the university precinct. Barkhuizen said MIE had received an increased number of requests for qualification verification for institutions across the country.Lesley Tshamanoprovinces@thenewage.co.za