Not enough is being done to address issues relating to racism in the country, the Anti-Racism Network South Africa (ARNSA) said.The national convener of ARNSA, which falls under the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, Sean Moodley, said conversations around the topic were often veiled in euphemisms, making it hard to tackle. We are not having enough conversations around this, Moodley said. There is a lot more that we can do, a lot more platforms we can create to tackle the issue. When we talk about it we use phrases like social cohesion, we are truly addressing the racism problem and that is what we need the most. This comes as the organisation kicked off its second annual Anti-Racism Week yesterday. The week is aimed at rallying people to come together to learn, talk about and speak out against racism.The theme this year is Becoming an anti-racism champion and each day of the week has been dedicated to another form of becoming.Just last week a Facebook user landed in hot water for his racist post. Obatala Mcambi, who boasted online that he uses his guns to rob and kill Indians and white people, is now being sought by police after criminal charges were laid against him.In his post, Mcambi said: I use my guns to rob and kill Indians and Whites. Please fellas, join me, we have to rape their kids with Aids virus too! The post was accompanied by a picture of the man holding a gun.The SA Minority Rights Equality Movement has reportedly offered a R10000 reward to anyone with information leading to Mcambi s arrest.Moodley said it was necessary to address racism especially considering the history of South Africa. He said the ongoing flare ups related to racism were the fruits of the roots of apartheid.He said while social media were often the playground for racists, it was also a great tool to get the conversation going. Fighting racism is about pulling people together.We need to form groups and movements to deal with the scourge of racism, he said.Anti-Racism Week will run until March 21, coinciding with Human Rights day and the United Nations International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za