AS TEMPTING as the Bafana Bafana job may be, sought after SuperSport United coach Stuart Baxter will not be jumping at the opportunity if offered to him as he believes any appointment will fail if regarded as a quick fix solution.Safa are expected to announce the new Bafana coach tomorrow, Baxter having been seen as one of the likely candidates earmarked for the position, along with Iran coach Carlos Quieroz and Herve Renard of Morocco. But Baxter, who guided the national team 12 years ago, has virtually ruled himself out of the running as he believes Safa are looking for a quick fix, something he says is not easy to achieve.The wily 63-year-old mentor believes in building teams founded on solid foundations to challenge successfully for top honours. I ve said it long ago. You first have to know that the job at Safa is a real job, Baxter said. Finding the elements to set the game right is more important than just thinking a single victory against Mali will solve the problem. It s a much longer process. Baxter rejected reports he had applied for the job, along with 60 applicants who submitted their CVs following Shakes Mashaba s sacking in December. It s an honour for any coach to coach a national team. But you first have to know that it s a proper job and until then I m not going to put myself in the frame, until then I m saying I m happy at SuperSport because I don t know if it s (Bafana coach) a proper job yet and how they (Safa) are approaching it. Baxter was fired by Safa back in 2005 following Bafana s failure to qualify for the 2006 Fifa World Cup. However, his success with Kaizer Chiefs and his impressive spell with United has got people believing he is the right man for the job. Baxter is now more used to the South African football culture compared to when he first arrived. But I would probably do all the things I did back then. When I was there I tried to instigate youth development, more coach education doing workshops with PSL coaches. Not by telling them what to do but by asking them to cooperate on deciding what SA football needs and how we can all improve it to be more competitive. There was opposition back then. From the association there was no one backing that necessary process. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi