The Competition Commission has referred for prosecution it&#8217;s tribunal Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd ( K-Line ), a Japanese company operating in South Africa, for price fixing, market division and collusive tendering.The company is accused along with several others, Mitsui O.S.K Lines Ltd ( MOL ), Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha Ltd ( NYK ) and Wallenius Wilhelmsen Logistics AS ( WWL ) fixed prices and tendered collusively for the transportation of vehicles from South Africa to various international destinations including Europe, north African and the Caribbean Islands, the commission spokesperson Sipho Ngwema said on Monday in a statement.This is the thirds case sent for prosecution by the commission in the recent weeks. Others included the uncovering of the collusion by more than a dozen of international and local banks in foreign currency trading and Unilever Plc for price fixing of edible oils and margarine.The Commission s investigation found that from at least 2002 to 2013 between the years of 2002 and 2013 the companies colluded on a tender issued by Toyota South Africa Motors to transport vehicles abroad by sea.They also agreed on the number of vessels used to operate on the SA Europe routes at agreed intervals or frequencies. South Africa is a strategic hub for the trade of goods in and out of the Southern African region. Any cartel by shipping liners in this region results in inflated prices for cargo transportation, said commissioner Tembinkosi Bonakele. Cartels of this nature increase the costs of trading in the region and render the region uncompetitive in the world markets. Such cartels have the effect of significantly derailing the economic growth of the region. In 2015, two of the companies NYK and WWL admitted to colluding on this tender and settled with the Commission. NYK, also a Japanese company, paid an administrative penalty of R103 977 927.00 and WWL, a Norwegian company, paid an administrative penalty of R95 695 529.00. MOL, another Japanese company, was not fined as it was first to approach the Commission and cooperated.All of the the companies that settled will cooperate with the Commission in prosecuting K-Line, the statement said.The commission is seeking a penalty equal 10 percent of K-Line s annual turnover.The Commission is seeking an order from the Tribunal declaring that K-Line, MOL, NYK and WWL contravened section 4(1)(b)(i),(ii) &amp; (iii) of the Act as well as an order declaring K-Line to be liable for payment of an administrative penalty equal to 10% of its annual turnover. South Africa is a strategic hub for the trade of goods in and out of the Southern African region. Any cartel by shipping liners in this region results in inflated prices for cargo transportation. Cartels of this nature increase the costs of trading in the region and render the region uncompetitive in the world markets. Such cartels have the effect of significantly derailing the economic growth of the region , said the Commissioner of the Competition Commission Tembinkosi Bonakele.&#8211; ANN7 reporter