Bafana Bafana international star Keagan Dolly said he never gave up on pursuing his European dream despite his agent father and Mamelodi Sundowns becoming locked in protracted transfer talks.The Dolly v Sundowns contract saga drew widespread attention, forcing club president Patrice Motsepe to intervene. All the while the diminutive attacking midfielder kept his cool and gave his all each time Sundowns fielded him. I m always focused on the task at hand so I gave my all to Sundowns. I d always been respectful to the team. I never lost hope. I always told myself that if it s meant for me to go overseas I would go eventually and nothing would stop me. The past is the past. I m just happy that my family is happy that everything went our way and that I m finally living my dream. Dolly, who looks up to his homeboy from Westbury, former Bafana Bafana skipper Steven Pienaar, said he hoped his move abroad would inspire other youngsters. Since joining French Ligue 1 side Montpellier in January, the 24 year old has featured seven times. Fortunately for me I ve played in the Fifa Club World Cup with Sundowns, I played in the Olympic Games with SA Under-23s last year in Brazil and I got a taste of what it s like to play international football. For me it was to go to Europe to try and prove to other youngsters in the country that it s possible and to inspire them. With the experience we South Africans are getting in Europe, we can share our knowledge with others playing here. Of life in France, Dolly said: Montpellier is a smallish city and its club is doing quite well but still needs to improve on the log. When I got there, the coach got sacked and when the new coach came in, he gave everyone an opportunity to prove themselves and that helped me to fit in. He closely watched everyone s performances. I told myself that I m not at home so nothing was going to be easy. I told myself that I needed to work hard and forget about my South African home for a while &#8230; and just try to prove myself. One day many more players from here will go to Europe and gain valuable experience. -Linda Ximba|news@thenewage.co.za