Nearly 60% of business executives say they are delaying expansion plans because of uncertainty about South Africa s future. Nearly half are putting off investment decisions, a third are considering investing offshore and a quarter are considering selling up.This is revealed in Grant Thornton s International Business Report for the fourth quarter of 2016. It says when these executives were asked to outline the ways in which economic uncertainty had affected their business decisions, 58% said they were delaying business expansion plans, while 47.5% were putting off investment decisions.Nearly one-third of these executives (29.8%) were considering investing offshore, possibly in a more stable business environment and 23% were weighing up decisions to sell. We ve been tracking economic uncertainty and its impact on local business executives for a long time, Gillian Saunders, head of advisory services at Grant Thornton SA, said. It s concerning that such a huge proportion of our country s corporate world is directly affected by this instability. The report provides tracker insights from around the world on a quarterly basis. The survey presents perceptions into the views and expectations of more than 10000 C-suite executives in privately-held and listed businesses, across more than 37 economies (more than 2 600 interviews per quarter).Regional and national perceptions are also researched every quarter for South Africa, from 400 SA privately held business executives annually (100 executive interviews a quarter) regarding crime, service delivery and political climate. As part of the Q4 IBR survey, South African privately held business executives were also asked how their business had been affected by government service delivery or regulatory requirements in the past six months.Of the executives surveyed 62% said government service delivery had negatively affected their business while just 9% had been positively affected by this. Service delivery should be fully functioning across all major city nodes, all the time. It is disappointing when the government s delivery of basic needs and infrastructure impacts the functionality of a business, Saunders said.When executives were asked to outline which elements negatively affected their business, 57% said increased service costs, 53% stated disruption to supply of utilities, and 49% cited the cost of red tape and legislative compliance. When business leaders around the world were asked how optimistic they were about the outlook for their own country s economy for the coming 12 months, a strong increase was reported internationally for the fourth quarter of 2016, as the world headed into 2017.Research from the report reveals that, globally, business optimism at the end of Q4 2016 stands at net 38%. This is an increase of 5 percentage points from Q3 and the highest level since Q3 2015. But South Africa s optimism levels remained stagnant and the outlook for the next 12 months was underwhelming. Local businesses were, at the end of December 2016, just a net 6% optimistic, which is 4pp down on Q3 s 10% optimism recorded at the end of September.But Saunders said compared to local business executives extremely pessimistic outlook during Q1 of 2016 when a negative 41% was recorded, the +48pp improvement in business optimism since then is certainly promising.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za