The status of an ANC Northern Cape provincial congress remains shrouded in an atmosphere of uncertainty.ANC provincial spokesperson Naledi Gaosekwe said a delegation team from the ANC s Luthuli House national offices concluded its work yesterday with the provincial executive committee (PEC), in an effort to resolve the infighting in the province that led to a false start for the congress.She said a decision had yet to be taken by the PEC on whether the congress would convene next week. There is not date as yet. The team from Luthuli House requested two weeks to complete its work. The PEC will then sit with the proposed recommendations of the provincial working committee (PWC), Gaosekwe said.Her comments come against the back drop of the ANC in the province having its eighth provincial congress postponed amid allegations of vote buying and gatekeeping.This after a provincial lekgotla had to be called off due to a skirmish between warring factions outside the venue.Gaosekwe said a special PEC meeting would convene soon to deliberate on the PWC s recommendation that the conference should be held from March 22-26.However, ANC spokesperson for the Frances Baard district, Ali Diteme, said that under the weight of the disunity within the ANC in the province, it was unlikely that a congress could be held in the coming week. As it stands, no decision has been taken yet, I don t think that the congress will proceed. More than 40 branches have been declared null and void. This means that those branches must still reconvene, he said.Diteme said factionalism within the ANC in the province had now reached untenable heights. It s all about disputes and they vary from branch to branch. Some people felt that some branches did not meet the 50% plus one quorum for its legitimacy, some people felt that their branch members were not captured in the provincial database. Some branches were disqualified and declared branches not in good standing. The secretary-general (Gwede Mantashe) even came twice to the province to sort these issues out. These relate to issues of gatekeeping, manipulation of membership and the exclusion of good members in standing, Diteme said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za