A total of 196 arrests for various offences including possession of dangerous weapons and outstanding warrants were made by the Cape Town metro police, traffic service and law enforcement departments at the weekend.Metro police arrested 43 suspects during operations in the last few days 28 for drunk driving, eight for possession of drugs, one for common assault and three for the illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. Three more were arrested for possession of stolen goods and imitation firearms, the city of Cape Town said yesterday.On Sunday at 3.30pm, the metro police and drug task team received a tip-off about weapons being stored at an address in Hanover Park. They searched the premises and found a Glock 30 pistol in a drain and five rounds of ammunition. A further search revealed a second magazine, 18 rounds of ammunition and a holster. Two suspects were arrested for the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition.On Saturday, metro police members attached to the tactical response unit arrested a 21-year-old suspect for the illegal possession of a firearm. The members were on general patrols in the Manenberg area when the control room alerted them to shots fired in the area.Upon arrival at the location, the officers spotted a man who bolted when he saw them. The officers gave chase and managed to apprehend him in Manenberg Avenue. When they searched him, they found a 9mm Norinco pistol, with its serial number filed off and 20 rounds of ammunition. The suspect was detained at the Manenberg police station.Metro police members who were conducting general patrols in the Maitland area near the railway line spotted two men and a woman crossing the road. Officers stopped and searched the trio and found them in possession of two imitation 9mm firearms and two surveillance cameras valued at R40000. The suspects were detained at the Maitland police station on various charges.The city s traffic service also said it had arrested 152 suspects and issued 4782 fines for various offences in the week to Sunday.The automated number plate recognition unit held a number of roadblocks throughout the city and arrested 77 suspects for outstanding warrants, served 835 warrants and released 192 motorists on a warning.In Operation Reclaim, held in Area South, officers arrested eight suspects for outstanding warrants, served 48 warrants and released 16 motorists on a warning.Taxi operations in Kuils River and Delft saw officers impound eight vehicles, make one arrest for drunk driving and issue 187 fines. Ongoing enforcement operations on the N2, Nelson Mandela Boulevard and Hospital Bend resulted in 15 arrests three for drunk driving, nine for outstanding warrants and three for reckless and negligent driving. They also issued 3759 fines, served 171 warrants and released 16 motorists on a warning.In Khayelitsha three roadblocks netted 39 motorists for drunk driving. Officers also issued 607 fines for various transgressions and in an operation focusing on illegal drag racing in the Fish Hoek and Ocean View area, officers arrested 12 suspects for driving under the influence of alcohol and issued 229 fines.The law enforcement department arrested a suspect at Mitchells Plain town centre on Thursday for possession of a dangerous weapon (a knife) and an imitation firearm.In Philippi, officers impounded two trucks for illegal dumping on Friday and on Sunday the owner of a bakkie was forced to part ways with his vehicle when it was impounded in Marcus Garvey informal settlement for dumping.TNA Reporterprovinces@thewnewage.co.za