Without a doubt, competing in three competitions will place PSL title challengers Bidvest Wits under a lot of pressure as fixtures will come thick and fast.However, midfielder Thabang Monare believes Wits are ready for whatever comes their way and will be able to handle the pressure. Wits, who are chasing their first league title, are also competing in the CAF Champions League first round this weekend. They also have to duplicate their focus in the Nedbank Cup, a competition they last won seven years ago.Wits returned to the summit of the PSL following their goalless draw against Chippa United on Tuesday in East London. The Johannesburgbased outfit is tied on 38 points with Cape Town City but Wits have a better goal difference and a game in hand. While returning to the top of the table could be seen as an achievement, the Students now need to shift their focus to the continental tournament.Wits are due to travel to Egypt where they will face eight times African champions Al Ahly in the first leg on Saturday. Monare admits to being under pressure but said it s not something new and unlike many who crumble under pressing times, the player is embracing it. Pressure is always there, it is part of the game. It would be nice if it was not there and we ould enjoy what we are doing, Monare said. Whether you are at the top or the bottom of the log there is always pressure because as players we play to win every time we are on the pitch. Despite having his positive outlook, Monare understands that taking part in three competitions is an enormous task. It s going to be difficult, we know that because nothing is easy in football. We just need to stick to our game plan, take it one game at a time and continue working hard no matter which competition we are playing in. Wits will play the Egyptian giants at the AlSalam Stadium in Cairo. After the trip, they will visit National First Division outfit Cape Town All Stars on Wednesday before entertaining Al Ahly in the Champions League first round return leg.-Sithembiso Dindi|sithembisod@thenewage. co.za