A family is living in fear after their troubled drug addicted son attacked their brother-in-law with a panga, nearly killing him at the weekend.The victim s wife was watching TV with his three-year-old daughter when her brother-in-law was attacked.The victim was hit in the back but quickly managed to avoid a second blow to the head and face.The family said their son, who is a tik addict, is always aggressive, threatening to kill the family when he returns home at night.Yesterday, a family member described her tik addict brother as someone who had no respect for anyone in the family.She said her brother stole money from the family and sold valuable items from the house. He is such an evil person. He is taking tik and is causing so much harm to everyone here, she said. He came here and started swearing at everyone in the house. He went into his backyard room and came back with a panga and started attacking my husband. My husband was lucky. He blocked the second blow which he aimed to his head with his arm.He would have killed him. We are living in fear of him. The victim was in pain when he explained how he was attacked while his daughter was seated next to him. He nearly killed me. I had no argument with him. He just came here and started assaulting me. I fear for my daughter and wife s safety. This man is totally aggressive when he has taken drugs. I have now opened up a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, the victim said.Church pastor Lincoln May said substance abuse is a serious problem in Oudtshoorn and needs urgent intervention. Community members, police, churches and social workers need to come together and deal with this scourge in our area, May said. Children begin to smoke drugs at a very early age. This worries us a lot because people who are dealing in drugs are living among us. As churches we need to bring awareness programmes that will help educate young people about the dangers of substance abuse. Oudtshoorn police confirmed the incident and said a case of assault GBH had been opened and a man was wanted in connection with the assault.MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za