NDEBELE monarch Makhosoke II is adamant that his customary marriage to Nozipho Mnguni, 27, which took place almost three years ago, was invalid in terms of the Customary Marriages Act and Ndebele custom.He was speaking about their illegal marriage through his lawyer Thulani Mtsuki during his appearance in the KwaMhlanga Magistrate s Court on Friday.The king s appearance followed after Mnguni, who hails from the Larry Mmamabolo township near KwaMhlanga, approached the court to contest against the invalidity of the marriage declared by the king.She also demanded that she should receive 50% of the king s pension fund and property because she was married to him.The overcrowded courtroom heard that Makhosoke II did not personally propose to the woman to become the queen of the Ndebele nation. They also never stayed together since the day after the marriage as wife and husband.The king said he did not send suitors to negotiate on his behalf with the woman s family and pay lobola.The lobola money accepted by the woman s family was not from him. The entire marriage process, the court heard, was done on his behalf by his undisclosed siblings without his consent.He did however participate in the white wedding celebration as a groom.The king did not participate in the traditional wedding ceremony which was held almost a month ahead of the wedding celebration. The wedding, according to him, was a fluke .Mtsuki told the court that his client had the right to marry a wife of his choice. Section 4 of the Customary Marriages Act was not followed during the wedding involving the defendant (Makhosoke II) and complainant (Mnguni). Therefore the defendant does not recognise the woman as his lawful wife. The two parties never had a love relationship and the lobola money that was paid to the woman s family was not from his pocket but from his young siblings without his consent. He did not personally partner with the woman during the traditional wedding ceremony and take vows during the wedding day. Some of the related performances were done on his behalf by somebody who cannot even be identified today. I therefore request the court to dismiss the application with costs, Mtsuki said.However, Mnguni s lawyer Mokgale Moabi told the court: The plaintiff consented to the marriage. The lobola was negotiated by members of the royal house led by the defendant himself. The Customary Marriages Act does not prescribe whose money should pay lobola. The defendant should come into the witness box and elaborate to the court why he does not agree with the validity of the marriage which happened at his royal palace. It is clear that he agreed with the marriage because he partnered with the woman on the same celebration day. The case was postponed to May 22.-France Nyaka