To Suggest that South Africa s sevens team are unstoppable in this year s World Rugby Sevens Series would be an understatement.The Blitzbokke s recent Las Vegas Cup victory was their fourth of the season and third in a row. Neil Powell s men have made the final of each series leg this year, losing only to England in Cape Town. To date, the Blitzbokke have won 28 of their last 30 matches, while England and Fiji could only manage 23.The hard-fought 19-12 win over Fiji, who are second on the overall standings with 83 points, took the Blitzbokke to top of the log with 107 points. While things are looking good for Powell s side, the Blitzbokke coach said they cannot afford to rest on their laurels, urging his charges to up the ante in Vancouver next weekend. I am happy with the win, credit to the guys. The systems are working well.To open up the gap between us and the second placed team is good. It will be important for us to keep up this momentum and maintain the gap. We have to start all over again in the next tournament, Powell said. Other teams are also getting better. It is important for us to use our opportunities. A lot will happen and things can change quickly in this game. We will have to be better in Vancouver.It will not be easy. We will have to make a step up. We will have to close up that tournament. It feels like a dream to win four. It is an unbelievable start we are having, but we could have won five. The Blitzbokke produced great results despite the absence of try scoring machine Seabelo Senatla and Kwagga Smith.Siviwe Soyizwapi and Dylan Sage replaced the duo and helped South Africa to spectacular showings. Powell has now put his faith in Soyizwapi and Sage ahead of the next tournament where they are grouped with Chile, Kenya and England, saying the players will only improve if they are given a chance. Siviwe did well. Sage too, who came in for Kwagga.They brought their own to our team. It was great to see them go out there and be themselves. That is what we are trying to create in the system an environment where individuals can reach their full potential. We do not put players in a box and want them to play like somebody else. -Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za 