Only 28% of senior management roles in South Africa are held by women, a report based on Grant Thornton’s International Business survey’s findings released on International Women’s Day yesterday, said. While higher than that of last year, the percentage of women business leaders has not changed significantly since the start of Grant Thornton’s research 13 years ago, when this figure was 26%. “We have made no progress,” LeeAnne Bac at Grant Thornton Johannesburg said. “Unfortunately, we have a very patriarchal culture in Africa, including South Africa. Until we make a concerted effort to change our mindset to the role of women in the workplace, at home and society at large, we’re going to continue to battle with inequality in the workplace. Change starts with how we treat children – we should be striving to raise boys and girls equally in a gender-neutral environment.” The report, which surveyed 5 500 businesses in 36 economies, also showed that almost a third (31%) of South African companies had no women at all in senior management positions. Globally, too, the pace of change towards gender equity remained glacial. SA, at 28%, is slightly ahead of the global average of 25% of senior roles held by women and at 31% better than the global average of 34% of businesses with no women in senior management. Globally, the company’s data showed developing regions continued to lead the charge on diversity while developed economies lag. Eastern Europe performs best, with 38% of senior roles held by women this year and just 9% of businesses with no women in senior management. The Mint economies (Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey) saw the most improvement, with the proportion of senior roles held by women rising from 24% in 2016 to 28% this year and the percentage of businesses with no women in senior management falling from 36% in 2016 to 27% this year. This is in significant contrast to the major developed economies of the G7, which have remained static compared to 2016 with 22% of senior roles held by women and 39% of businesses with no women in senior management. The report reveals it is still most common for senior women to be in supporting roles, particularly as human resources directors or CFOs. However, there has been a slow rise in the number of women in CEO roles in South Africa, from 7% in 2015 to 9% in 2016 and 10% now. “Again, however, the rise is not very significant,” Bac, who believes we have reached a point of complacency in this country, said. “Businesses have put some women in management positions, ticked that box, and now they are not doing anything further. “Instead, companies should constantly be working to improve gender diversity in the workplace. “We have too few women in management positions, and until we tilt that balance it will remain difficult for women to influence the change. Women are fighting from a position of lack of power.” -Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za