Ajax Cape Town have not won a match this year but their next opponent, high-flying SuperSport United, won t be reading too much into that.Log leaders United will welcome 11th placed Ajax tomorrow to the Lucas Moripe stadium at 8.15pm in their pursuit to remain at the summit of the PSL table. While Matsatsantsa a Pitori have been in good form, collecting 10 points out of a possible 12, Ajax have managed just two points from four matches this year.United are favourites to claim the three points and stretch their unbeaten league run to 18 matches. However, captain Dean Furman and coach Stuart Baxter have warned against any form of complacency that could threaten their status at the top of the log. There is no useless team any more in the league, maybe that was 10 years ago when a top team plays a bottom and you see a 6-0 result, Baxter said. It s not the case any more. We are playing Ajax and they are a good side. They have just come up with a good 1-1 result against Chiefs. We don t take anybody or any game for granted. This is going to be a tough game, we have to play well in order to get the three points and if any of our players are thinking of anything else then they are in dreamland. Baxter believes Ajax have improved a lot under coach Stanley Menzo who took over in November when the side had not yet tasted a victory. Now they have won five matches and have 20 points in the bag after 19 matches but are still in the relegation mix. Furman echoed the words of his coach and believes Ajax could pose a serious threat. I wouldn t say they are not doing well.Before the break they won four or five on the bounce and that shows what they have got in their ranks and it shows that they can be dangerous on the day, Furman said. We have played them many times before, they have strong players and did well against Chiefs so we have to be ready for what they throw at us. The captain scored the only goal for United in their victory over Highlands Park last weekend. We have to ensure that we continue with the good form that we are in. -Sithembiso Dindi|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za 