THE sun was just a few hours before rising on the horizon on the morning of February 10 when xenophobic violence erupted at the shack land of Disteneng on the western periphery of Polokwane.At Disteneng, the Shona language competes for dominance with local languages as Zimbabweans occupy many of the zinc sheet shacks.Against the backdrop of an anti-immigrant march in Pretoria, the atmosphere in Polokwane was tense, with people fearing a recurrence of brutal assaults on illegal foreigners purported to be hardened criminals.Disteneng was the scene of the 2010 xenophobic violence which tarnished South Africa s national image ahead of the historic Fifa World Cup which was played on African soil for the first time in 2010.More often than not, Zimbabweans are killed at Disteneng during violent mob justice incidents by angry South Africans who come from the length and breadth of the province to settle next to the capital city of Polokwane seeking employment.Apart from accusing foreigners of rampant criminality, they are accusing them of taking their women and jobs as Zimbabweans are eager to toil for paltry pay.It is understood that the recent attacks on Zimbabweans were triggered by a spate of housebreakings. In the early hours of that fateful Friday, residents said they were awakened by loud noises of other dwellers who were chasing suspected criminals.However, in the process a man was mistakenly identified as a criminal and beaten to a pulp by the rampaging mob. As the violent situation gathered momentum, Westenburg police could not control the angry residents baying for the blood of people they said were terrorising them in their own country.Disteneng residents are accusing foreign nationals of being behind the armed robberies, housebreakings, cable theft, rapes and the surge of illegal substances in this shack neighbourhood.An altercation between the enraged mob and the police left a few people, including a pregnant woman, with injuries. Police vehicles were stoned, a minibus taxi shot at and a shack burnt to the ground.The burnt shack was rented by Zimbabweans, who were accused of peddling drugs. As the mayhem gained impetus, the incensed residents charged at the police, pelting them with rocks, while the police responded by firing rubber bullets.One of the besieged police officers who cannot be identified because he is not a spokesperson, said: These people were raging mad. They were baying for blood and given their large number, we were seriously under attack. There was a hail of stones coming from every direction. We were forced to fire rubber bullets while at the same time retreating. Constance Maake, who was part of the raging mob, said: I ve never seen such a chaotic situation.We were woken up rudely in the early hours by people chasing one another. There were whistles blown all over the place. Later we were running all over looking for suspects and we didn t even have knowledge of their identity. But the highlight of the day was the altercation with the police. I never thought I would see the police running away from a mob while carrying guns. It was like a Hollywood movie, it was so chaotic. Police had to deploy the airwing which, from a helicopter hovering over the shacks, dropped teargas to disperse the raging mob.Later, the angry residents went to a house they said was occupied by a drug dealer. Without wasting time, some looted valuable items from the Zimbabwean owned tuck shop and subsequently set the shack alight.While the shack burned, there were loud cheers and whistles by community members.MOYAHABO MABEBA