The Nedbank Cup, the local version of the English FA Cup, is as much about trepidation as it is about surprise and excitement. And the early eliminations of three coastal teams so far have certainly brought plenty of apprehension to Chippa United as they go into their tricky last 32 round fixture against Witbank Spurs tomorrow.Premiership sides Ajax Cape Town and Cape Town City were on the wrong end of some of the big upsets in the Nedbank Cup history, the Cape sides being eliminated by third-tier league minnows KwaDukuza United and Acornbush United, respectively. Maritzburg United, however, were knocked out by fellow PSL side Golden Arrows. And Chippa, who host Spurs at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tomorrow, will be wary not to suffer similar shock and fall to the minnows.Teams in the lower divisions have already shown they can t be taken lightly, not even by the so-called illustrious clubs. The default position for coaches on the wrong end of a cup upset is to insist upon looking on the bright side. These result means the likes of Cape Town City s Eric Tinkler and Ajax s Stanley Menzo can now concentrate on other important matters, the greater importance now placed on PSL success and the greater financial rewards available for City, who have been impressive so far this season.But there is plenty of pride in cup competition, especially for teams with less chances of winning the league. It s the threat of elimination that will concern Chippa coach Dan Malesela, who returns to his post after he spent days in convalescence. He will need the best of his artillery for the tricky clash against Spurs, though he may miss some of his key men due to injury. Striker Rhulani Manzini is doubtful for the match with an injury.According to team physiotherapist Mark Anderson, Manzini got a knock on his head towards the end of the game against Bidvest Wits and as a precaution he may not be available for the Nedbank game. Midfielder Andile Mbenyane is also a doubt after picking a grade left AC joint injury against Wits.But Malesela will welcome the return to training of Paseka Mako, who recovered from a hamstring strain while Vusi Mncube is improving after knee surgery and should be available for selection along with Bongani Kama. Anderson said Siya Ngubane and Katlego Mashego are both back in training.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za