A South African mother whose son and future daughter-in-law were incarcerated for more than five weeks in the United Arab Emirates is relieved that their ordeal is finally over.Emlyn Culverwell, 29, from the Eastern Cape and his Ukrainian fianc e, Iryna Nohai, 27, were released on Wednesday from Al Wathba prison in Abu Dhabi. They were jailed for contravening UAE laws that prohibit having sex outside marriage. Iryna is three months pregnant.The couple were charged under zina law that forbids sex outside marriage.Speaking from her Port Alfred home in the Eastern Cape, Emlyn s mother Linda Culverwell, said she was happy that the nightmare was over. It s been a traumatic experience for them. They have their jobs, they are trying to get back on their feet. It s a huge relief. Charges have been dropped, she said.Culverwell was visiting a doctor when the good news came, she said. I was screaming like a mad person at the hospital when my son called, she said.The happy mother said the released couple would be getting married as soon as possible.They were arrested while visiting a doctor at Medeor Medical Centre in Yasi Mall after Iryna complained about stomach cramps.Police were called when a doctor revealed that Iryna was pregnant.The Human Rights Watch s (HRW s), Nicholas McGeehan said foreign nationals were mostly being charged under the controversial law. The law is discriminatively applied against women and is often used against women who make rape allegations and migrant domestic workers. HRW has done a lot of work on the UAE s zina laws, which prohibit sex outside marriage for men and women. I believe the minimum sentence is one year in prison for offenders, McGeehan said.The couple have been working for Yas Waterword. They were freed after Yas Waterword s parent company Miral and Farah Enterprises, intervened and secured them legal representation and paid their bail.Meanwhile, another woman, a 30 year old from Durban, woman charged under the zina law has been in custody since January 4 this year.She was taken to prison after it emerged she was pregnant. Her mother who did not want her daughter to be identified for fear of victimisation, said she has been kept in jail even though she had a miscarriage and lost her baby.Department of International Relations and Cooperation, spokesperson Nelson Kgwete said they could not intervene in cases where laws had been violated. The law in the UAE states that they can t have sex out of marriage and people who go there must respect that, he said.ZODIDI MHLANAzodidim@thenewage.co.za