 I PRAY that she comes back before I close my eyes. Sixty-seven-year-old Junice Adams s eyes are filled with tears as she talks about the pain and anguish of losing her abducted twin daughter on March 6, 1989, exactly 28 years ago. Veronique Adams was just over 11 months when she was abducted from her home.The mother left her identical twins, Veronique and Veronisha, in the care of their nanny at their home in Extension 9, Eldorado Park, south of Johannesburg.A telephone call later that morning from her brother, Nolan Ferreira, turned her life upside down.Her brother had passed by her house earlier and discovered it in disarray. It was tea time and I was at work in Rosettenville and I immediately came home. He found my one daughter crying. Her twin was missing, she said.The nanny, who disappeared with Veronique, had identified herself as Beauty Mkhwanazi from Pietermaritzburg. She had been employed a few weeks earlier.Junice said the past 27 years have taken a huge toll on her and her family. It has been so difficult. You try and push it to the back of your mind, but it always comes, she said. When my mother passed away, I said to myself, all the people that were hoping and praying with me are all gone now, yet Veronique has not been found. I will never lose hope. Veronisha too said she will never lose hope of being reunited with her twin. Like my mother, I have not lost any hope that one day we will see her. I really get depressed on our birthdays, she said. Junice s husband Jacobus, died from a fatal heart attack in 2005. The doctors said that because he could never talk about his feelings, he bottled things up and it made it so difficult for him, Junice said.She said reading about missing children who have been reunited with their families following years of being apart, gave her hope. I ve never given up hope. I m sure one day we will meet again. I read a lot and I listen to the news. I read about a lady whose son was missing since he was a baby and eventually they were reunited, she said. We hope and pray that God can come through, and miracles still happen. It does not matter how long we have to wait. Searching for her child has taken Junice to Lubatsi, Botswana in 1997 and Durban in 2012, but nothing came out of those leads.Readers, who may have any information to help locate Veronique, should contact Junice on 011 945 6000.zodidim@thenewage.co.za