The national commissioner of the South African Revenue Service (SARS), Tom Moyane, has told Parliament in no uncertain terms that his reporting lines go to President Jacob Zuma.In what appeared to be his way of saying that he did not report to Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, Moyane said he was appointed in terms of the SARS Act and was an accounting officer, as well as an accounting authority. The SARS s commissioner is not a DG (director-general). He is an accounting authority. It s important that the lines of accountability are clear. He is appointed by the President of South Africa, he told the Standing Committee of Finance yesterday.Moyane was loath to answer questions about the relationship between him and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan particularly since DA members of Parliament had used terms such as civil war when putting questions to him.He said: My understanding is civil war means a situation where blood is being let. I would like to defer that I be educated to the word civil war. He said he wanted to make it clear and succinct so that when the term civil war was used his mind raced to places such as Somalia.Asked about Gordhan s decision to have the SARS investigated by judge Dennis Davis, Moyane denied the SARS was resisting such an investigation. It s not true. We have never resisted any investigation that is lawful. On the investigation into suspended senior SARS s official Jonas Makwakwa, Moyane said the investigation into allegations of financial impropriety was in progress.He said: It would be amiss of me to say this is the status with regards to this matter. The matter is ongoing. In his presentation, Moyane admitted that the SARS found comments made about it damaging. He said the SARS collected 90% of all the government s revenue.He cautioned that those who criticised the SARS should remember that they were sabotaging the economy and also negatively impacting on staff.Moyane said South Africa was seeing a disturbing trend where tax compliance levels were beginning to deteriorate.In its presentation to the Portfolio Committee, the SARS said that by December 2016, the R818.76bn revenue collected reflected a surplus of half a billion rand and a year-to-date growth of R58.3bn or 7.7% on the previous year.According to the SARS, the highest risk to the collection of revenue remained import taxes, which include both import VAT and customs duties. They have been falling owing to the subdued levels of merchandise imports, resulting from rising import costs and weak domestic activity that dampen the demands of consumption and capital goods .Among the other risks to revenue was the growth rate of salary increases, which was also expected to continue in especially the community and the social services sector. Despite calling the revenue from the mining and quarrying sector in December as positive, the SARS anticipated that this trend might not be sustained.It said: The saving in VAT refunds was depleted and the December 2016 backlog was cleared largely in January 2017, thus posing a downside risk to overall revenue collections. DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za