After various false starts, a newly mooted trade union federation led by former Cosatu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi, is in a race against time to meet its launch date of April 21.Briefing the media at the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) headquarters in Johannesburg, Municipal and Allied Trade Union of South Africa (Matusa) president King Chanza acknowledged that the mooted federation missed its initial target this month due to financial and logistical challenges for Numsa and the Food and Allied Workers Union (Fawu).He said, however, that Vavi and his cohort of Cosatu splinter unions would toil to the finish line. In terms of the monetary value of transporting delegates throughout the country, the delays in soliciting money from trade unions also contributed to a logistic problem because we had to wait for some of these unions to go back to their structures and report back, Chanza said.His comments come against the background of Vavi and Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim going into overdrive to convince the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) to throw in its lot with the mooted federation.This also follows trade union Solidarity snubbing a similar proposal from the former Cosatu leaders.Former South Africa Democratic Teacher Union (Sadtu) member Paul Mbele said he was hopeful that Amcu would be persuaded into joining the federation. Remember it relies on its own mandatory processes as well to take a final decision. We have to respect that particular kind of a process but we re not leaving it to chance, we re looking at other interested unions that we believe can be persuaded to come on board, he said.Vavi, responding to Solidarity s snub, said that while the union s decision not to join the federation was a huge setback , he went on to slam the union for wanting to advance the interests of the Afrikaner race . The answer we seemed to be getting was clear that Solidarity saw a future of itself within what we call the Afrikaner stable together with AfriForum. We wanted white workers and Afrikaner workers inside the tent together with other races. If they want to be part of an exclusive club on the basis of race, that s regrettable. In 22 years of democracy we thought we d bring workers together. Vavi also had some words to spare for Cosatu. He said that money owed in affiliation fees by Fawu and Numsa to the trade union federation would not be paid back. I can also add that Numsa is not going to pay. Cosatu must go elsewhere and fund raise and get money to pay its staff which it is now struggling to pay. They are not going to get 1 cent from Numsa and Fawu. They can go jump in the lake, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za