Very few situations can be likened to describe Baroka FC s clownish antics in the Absa Premiership thus far. From showing much promise when they defied the odds to gain promotion to the top tier last August, the team seem the personification of a travelling circus seven months later.But then if a team has a chairperson who is a throwback to the 1940 movie character, The Joker, what else can be expected? That unfortunately has been what Khurishi Mphahlele has projected to outsiders. In Morgan Mammila and Kgoloko Thobejane, lead actor Mphahlele has sidekicks who could play Tom and Jerry without reading the script. Bakgaga s maiden season in the PSL has proved to them that life in the elite league is no breeze, as the National First Division (NFD) was. Things have changed now and from being a big bad bullying bull terrier in the second division, Baroka have now been reduced to a chihuahua still trying to get over the rains that were left in the wake of tropical storm Dineo.They lack bite and anything else one can think of, even though like a toothless coward of a dog that knows nothing about hunting, have a bark that is worse than their imaginary bite. To date, Baroka have won two out of their 20 games, drawing eight times and losing 10. This is a team that had its management telling anyone who would listen that they would win the league in their first season in the PSL. Instead of waking up to the reality that they were staring relegation in the eye, the team, through their uncontrollable and publicity hungry chairperson, CEO and coach, kept hallucinating about winning the championship. The kind of hullabaloo taking place at the Polokwane side is fast making the Chippa Mpengesi of 2012 look kittenish in comparison. The truth is Baroka, who sold some of their best players in Thabiso Kutumela and Donald Mokondelela who were central to them gaining promotion lack quality talent, proven match winners, a good experienced coach, proper and sane planning as well as a recruitment strategy befitting a team that spends each day fighting for survival. Instead of spending their time fixing such issues, their top management and coach have been in the media, first talking about how they could have hired Pitso Mosimane or Gavin Hunt and how they would beat anyone from Bidvest Wits, Mamelodi Sundowns, Cape Town City, Orlando Pirates or even Kaizer Chiefs by four goals or more. Wits gave Thobejane s men a rude awakening, thrashing them 5-0 and as if the season had not taught them anything, Thobejane still continued to say his side was mathematically out of the title race as if they were ever a part of it.The only race Baroka can immerse itself in is the one of making the play-offs rather than automatically dropping to the NFD. They trail their foes Highlands Park by three points and Free State Stars by four, with the three teams all having played 20 matches. It actually will even be blasphemous for the Mickey Mouse side to have end of year awards as is the norm for serious PSL teams after this season as none of their players deserve such praise and commendation.Only goalkeeper Oscarine Masuluke should be given the outstanding moment of the season for his breathtaking overhead kick scored in the dying stages of their draw against Pirates. Only that and his celebration should earn some praise, while tapes of Baroka s horrible football should just be burned as they offer nothing for the development and betterment of football in the country or in Limpopo. They need to go spend a season or two in the NFD as they will get enough time to have their house in order and also hire a real spokesperson or media officer so Mphahlele, Thobejane and Mammila can focus on football matters and taking the team forward. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.zaMmaskepe Matsebane 