Bodies are piling up in Benoni as rival illegal miners fight over access to disused mine shafts in the East Rand.A crack team of detectives has been assembled to investigate the murder of 14 people found dead in the past two days.The victims are believed to be illegal miners killed by rival illegal miners over access to abandoned mine shafts. The first six bodies were found on Sunday morning dumped in the veld and eight more were discovered yesterday at Unity Street, New Modder.Provincial police spokesperson Col Lungelo Dlamini said the killings were believed to be linked to a rivalry between gangs involved in illegal mining. It appears that the victims were either killed with a sharp object or shot before their bodies were dumped. It is still unknown where they were killed, Dlamini said. The bodies have not yet been identified. Police are appealing to anyone who might have information to contact the nearest police station or Crime Stop on 0860010111. A visit to the area found a community living in fear of the horrors brought by the old mines. A devastated father who lost his son to illegal mining said abandoned mine shafts posed a danger to society as more young people turn to illegal mining due to unemployment.His son, Themba Shoes Maluleka, 30, was recruited by a ringleader and went underground for two years. He s been underground for two years and he was supposed to come out in August but we got a voice note from his friends saying that he was injured and died but they were unable to remove his body from underground. It has been six months since his remains have been left underground. It is very painful that I will never get to bury my son. No one is willing to help, even the man who paid R15000 for my son to gain entry into the mine does not want to help or even pay us the money he worked for while underground. There are about three abandoned shafts around the Angel area in Benoni. The community said they lived in fear because a young female was raped and thrown into a huge disused mine shaft in September last year and her body was never recovered. We fear for our children, these shafts are dangerous and have to be closed because criminals use them to bury people. The community said they had pleaded with local authorities to close the shafts but nothing had been done. The National Union of Mineworkers said it did not have the power to close abandoned mine shafts.NUM spokesperson Livhuwani Mammburu said the Department of Mineral Resources was responsible for closing the mine shafts. A report released by the Chamber of Mines of South Africa revealed that 70% of all arrested illegal miners were undocumented foreign nationals, predominately from Lesotho. The annual commercial value of illegal mining and illicit dealings in precious metals and diamonds is estimated to be more than R7bn, the report said.-DIKELEDI RAMABOPA AND NONDUMISO ZWANE