At least four of the Rosettenville houses that were burnt by residents last month have been re-invaded and are back operating as brothels.Several houses, suspected of belonging to drug lords, were set alight early last month during protests.Residents and authorities have confirmed that the suspects are back running the brothels in the same houses.A concerned resident, Yolisa Besani, said nothing had changed after last month s protests. Clearly, this is not over as we re seeing a lot of activity in these houses every night. It looks like they did not get the message last month, Besani said.A flat on Kruger Street, a house on Long Street, 74 High Street, which has blankets used as curtains and a property on Victoria Street are allegedly hives of activity at night.A community leader, Andile Tshem said they were shocked after the police released a suspect found with drugs like nyaope, crystal meth, dagga, several bank cards and ID cards. Residents handed the man over to the police on Sunday, but he was released on Monday because the arrest was made by residents despite the fact that we provided evidence . There s a lot of activity here (Kruger Street) at night, a lot of cars are parked outside, some of the burnt houses from about 7pm. These people have no respect for the police, our laws and South Africans, Tshem said.Ward 56 councillor, Michel Crichton, also confirmed he was aware of the revived activities. One of the houses was completely burnt, but they have rooms in the backyard that are being used. We re not sure if they were built with council s approval because they were built on the boundary lines, Crichton said.Gauteng SAPS spokesperson Capt Kay Makhubela said they arrested nine people for possession of drugs and illegal immigrants on Sunday following their raids in the area. The raids were a success and our presence in the area will continue until total calm is restored. MMC for public safety, Michael Sun, said they had a successful drug bust in the area and would maintain police visibility until the area is cleaned up. My office is aware of the activities. We want to go back and visit those houses again. On Friday, we discovered that there was drugs hidden from bags of mealie meal in a shop in Rosettenville, we are told these guys are suppliers. We found a rock of tik, which we are told they break and package it into small packets and sell it to dealers, Sun said.Moffat View station commander, Lt-Col Shadrack Khoza said allegations that the police were colluding with criminals were unfounded hence they could not investigate. We are patrolling the houses and checking constantly. Over the weekend, we made 10 drug-related arrests in that same area. African Diaspora Forum chairperson, Marc Gbaffou called on the Rosettenville community to report cases to the police.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za