The SACP and the ANC s Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) have agreed to mend fences.SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said the party and the leadership of the ANC s former military wing held a bilateral meeting on Monday in Boksburg, where the two groups agreed to bury the hatchet following tensions over the communists concerns about divisions within the MK rank and file . The SACP and MKMVA leadership exchanged views about the state of our movement. We were concerned about how these divisions played themselves out in public. The divisions were discussed accordingly and the meeting was highly fruitful, Mashilo said.He said the SACP and MKMVA had committed to a number joint initiatives. We will work towards the development and implementation of joint political programmes, we also agreed to meet periodically to exchange information on matters that require the attention of MKMVA and the SACP and we will work towards attending to the plight of former MK combatants. The meeting follows a call last year from the SACP to hold a meeting with the MKMVA leadership over the credibility crisis embroiling the ANC s former military wing.This was said in relation to warring factions within MK over the legitimacy of a council meeting held by a group of former MK combatants, led by former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda.Mashilo said that the meeting between the SACP and MKMVA should serve as an example to members of the ANC-led tripartite alliance on how differences should be resolved. The meeting should indeed serve as an encouragement of how we must work together. Its outcomes must be supported to become successful. The way we relate to each other as an alliance must be different because our weakness is when we will meet and then after the meeting someone behaves as if there was no meeting. The initiative of the SACP and MKMVA agreed to unite and for that to happen there must be consistent communication. Mashilo also chimed in on Cosatu s call for Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini to be sacked over South Africa Social Security s (Sassa) grant payment bungle. Alliance members are entitled to express their views about the government policy. When it happens it can t be reduced to public spats, he said.MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe echoed Mashilo s sentiment on the outcome of the meeting. We believe that the meeting was long overdue. The meeting was frank, open and constructive and political and we agreed that the SACP was genuinely concerned about MKMVA. We also agreed on joint political programmes because political education is what is lacking in the ANC-led alliance. bonolos@thenewage.co.za