Long before current Chippa United defender Justice Chabalala landed a professional football contract, featuring for Free State Stars and Orlando Pirates, he used to work at the airport.His occupation? He forgot what his official job title was, but his main duties include pushing trolleys that travellers would leave around at the airport. With a day that would start around 3:30am, Chabalala would leave his one room shack in Soweto to take a train that will leave him at Park Station in Johannesburg, where he got on to a connecting train to Kempton Park.From time to time, the current Chippa defender, who featured in the match against Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Versfeld, would meet professional players and coaches. The defender recalls how he would see Gavin Hunt while he was still coaching SuperSport United with an urge to tell Hunt that he is a quality defender. It was a dream of mine even at that time, but I did not know how it will come through.When I was working at the airport, I would see coach Hunt there with his team. I wanted to go to him but I had a feeling he was never going to take me serious. I mean, he must be meeting many people who tell him that they are good players, Chabalala said. So I continued with my duties. That time, I was staying in a shack. I only had something to sleep on. There was no fridge.I could not buy meat and other stuff. Other than the fact that I was broke, I had nowhere to put those things. I survived mainly on tinned fish. It was tough at that time, but I had a dream that I am living today, the talented defender said. Unlike those years, Tshabalala now can afford to go grocery shopping at any store and his fridge is always packed with nutritious food. And from that shack, the defender has bought a house. His dream now besides playing for Bafana Bafana is to go into property. I have bought a house and my plan is to buy more. That is a business I am really interested in. Franchising is another that I would like to try, but for now I am still learning, Tshabalala said. Unlike many people who chose to make new friends when they have made it to the top, Tshabalala said he still chooses to associate with those who helped him to the top.His biggest influence at the moment is former University of Pretoria captain Tebogo Monyai. I don t think I could have been what I am if it was not for football and the people who believed in me like Monyai.He helped me a lot when I turned professional and even now, he advises me. I did not find it hard accepting and adjusting to the situation where I moved from Pirates to Chippa. I was in a way, prepared for it, Chabalala said.-Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za