It s still early days, but new coach Kjell Jonevret is pleased he already has Orlando Pirates players singing off his hymn sheet.With merely three weeks into his job, Jonevret has already picked enough positives from his first two matches to believe his players have started to fulfil his philosophy. Collecting two points from a possible six would certainly make many coaches feel they have dropped points, but the Swede feels he is on the right track in his mission to lift the Buccaneers out of the doldrums of recent months and set them on the path to a top eight finish in the PSL.Expected to stutter against Kaizer Chiefs in the Soweto derby, the Buccaneers punched above their weight and more than retained their pride with a credible 1-1 outcome. They have another chance at redemption when they host SuperSport United at Orlando stadium tonight, with events of the previous fixture between the two sides still fresh in the mind.Pirates suffered one of their worst defeats in the club s history, sinking to a 6-1 loss to United in November. Those psychological scars were recently revisited as Mamelodi Sundowns inflicted a painful 6-0 defeat, a result which triggered violence at Loftus Versveld Stadium last month. I am happy with how my players have responded to my philosophy and my way of working since arriving at the club, Jonevret said. They ve been very positive and as a coach I can only be pleased because it s not easy to join a club mid-season and succeed in changing a team s mindset. I was happy with the match (against Chiefs), especially the first half. I think we were the better team at least for the first half but we seemed to tire somewhat in the second half. In the end I was happy with the performance from my players. They showed commitment and a desire to win. But obviously we need to continue working hard. Jonevret has seen several of the Pirates games to critique in order to assess their results, pointing to poor defence as their Achilles heel. He will know to strengthen his rearguard tonight, lest United exploit that chink in Bucs armour. We have another tough game coming up against SuperSport United. We expect another hard match and we will have to be ready for whatever they bring. We are now well and truly in the business end of the season which means that we will not have any easy games. Every match will be tough and every match will require all of us to be focussed and disciplined. Meanwhile, defender Marc van Heerden will be available for selection against United, having missed the last two matches due to a muscle tear he sustained against Bidvest Wits.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za