Not too many can quite figure what goes through the mind of Orlando Pirates boss Irvin Khoza. He often pulls a rabbit out of his hat, just as he did with the appointment of unknown Swedish Kjell Jonevret as Bucs head coach.If that was astonishing, the announcement of his assistant, Harold Jazzy Queen Legodi, was equally surprising. Not only because Legodi has no historical connection to the Buccaneers it even rejected him as a player some 30 years ago. Legodi, affectionately known as Jazzy Queen, has seemed content with chiselling out future stars at his Africa Sport Youth Development Academy.But in trying to save the sinking ship, Khoza has gone for horses for courses to restore the club s fortunes, and not necessarily with familiar names. Legodi shared his experience since joining the Ghost early last month, after replacing Bradley Carnell as the first assistant Bucs coach. Overall the experience has been good, the players have been responding well, Legodi said. The unfortunate part of it is that we drew three games but at least we got our first win in the Nedbank Cup and a good one at that. So hopefully going forward we will start playing well. I was a fan of Orlando Pirates when I was growing up, in fact I wanted to play for Orlando Pirates but I was rejected and that s how I ended up at Mamelodi Sundowns. But I m now honoured and privileged to be here. There has always been a close relationship between the academy (Africa Sport Youth Development Academy) and Orlando Pirates. Africa Sport is part of Orlando Pirates. Indeed, Legodi, a Sundowns legend and former assistant coach, has been operating the conveyor belt that has churned out several stars for the Buccaneers. Look, my passion will always be to unearth young talent and develop them into successful players, Legodi said. In the past, my academy has brought in the likes of Patrick Phungwayo, Ntsikelelo Nyauza, Lehlogonolo Masalesa, Oupa Manyisa, Mpho Makola, Menzi Masuku and Roger Majafa to Pirates. I remain passionate about promoting young players and nurturing them from development to a professional level. But Legodi faces a far more sizeable task of assisting Jonevret to steer the Bucs ship in the right direction. It s the task he will be judged on during his two-year term.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za