The North West provincial government is turning the heat on commercial banks found to have conspired to fix the rand, calling not just for hefty fines but criminal prosecution as well.The charge, led by Premier Supra Mahumapelo, will see the provincial legislature conduct talks to decide on a position that has to be taken.Mahumapelo said it was absurd that people who usually cry the loudest when any allegation of corruption is raised were eerily quiet on this massive scandal by some local and international banks.The Competition Commission found that banks like Absa, Standard Bank, Investec and others colluded to fix the value of the rand.Describing the banks actions as tantamount to economic sabotage and treason, Mahumapelo said that sufficient punishment should be meted out. We want all those who fixed the rand to be fixed. Their preposterous actions are an act of treachery that distorted not only the money market but every transaction that has been going on. It affected investors who either decided to invest or disinvest in South Africa because of the value of the rand, Mahumapelo said. Pricing of commodities were equally skewed because people rely on the stock markets to check the value of the rand. As such, what one has been paying for salt, sugar, bread and even bonds for houses has been affected by the fixing of the rand. It s a massive issue that we want to pursue and see a logical conclusion. The premier said criminal sanctions have to be carried out on those responsible. These are the people who claim cleanliness yet they are the chief perpetrators of malfeasance and corruption. We want to show them that no one is above the law and as banks, they should account. The provincial government has taken a hard line especially on Absa, the bank it entrusts with more than R30bn in deposits.Finance, economy and enterprise development MEC Wendy Nelson said talks were ongoing on the banking contract. We are engaging our provincial banker, Absa, on our contract and further developments on this matter will be communicated as part of regular feedback to our people, Nelson said.There has been talk that the province intends to sever ties with the bank but it has not been confirmed.ANC chief whip in the provincial legislature Hoffman Galeng labelled the implicated banks as the real state capturers and said the banks needed to face the music. These institutions created a storm in a tea cup over the appointment of the finance minister but findings by the Competition Commission show that they have been deliberately manipulating and massaging the value of the rand to suit their nefarious agenda, Galengsaid. It s not a surprise that Absa is involved in this scandal and our view is that they have committed a crime and should be held accountable. Galeng said the implicated banks have to pay for the deliberate shock, pain and alarm they caused the South African public, especially the poor.DA provincial leader Joe McGluwa said the party was ready for a debate on the fixing of the rand and the collusion of banks but said that it would be ill-advised for the state to have its own bank.elfast@thenewage.co.za