The DA has started to use written parliamentary questions to Cabinet ministers to establish if there has been any business given to Mzwanele Manyi.Three questions came up this week, two received answers, while the third did not.Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu categorically denied that her department has procured any services from and/or made any payments to Manyi, his Progressive Professionals Forum, the Decolonisation Fund and/or the Black Business Council.Police Minister Nathi Nhleko said in his reply to the same question: The South African Police Service (SAPS) could not detect that any services were procured or payments made to the mentioned individual, forum, fund and/or council. There has been no answer yet to an analogous question put to the Minister in the Presidency, Jeff Radebe.Meanwhile, three prisoners died in the bloody clashes between inmates and warders that rocked St Albans Prison in Port Elizabeth last December. They died on Day of Goodwill, according to a written reply to a parliamentary question given by Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha.Responding to questions posed by James Selfe of the DA, Masutha said: There are three inmates who died of unnatural causes in the St Albans Correctional Centres in Port Elizabeth in the 2016 calendar year. All three died on December 26, 2016. Masutha said the case has been reported to the SAPS. The SAPS and the court will decide on the inquest process to follow. He said the regional commissioner of the Department of Correctional Services was considering a report into the matter. The outcome of the investigation will be communicated and implemented after the decisions are made on recommendations in consultation with the national office. The regional management is addressing functional and administrative issues of St Albans Maximum Correctional Centre and follow-up action will be developed on finalisation of the investigation, Masutha said.The SAPS has not done a scientific study to determine the reasons behind the criminal behaviour during attacks on farms, according to Nhleko. But the modus operandi and the circumstances under which these crimes are committed, are constantly being analysed by detective service, crime intelligence, the crime registrar and visible policing, in order to implement specific operational and tactical plans for the prevention, combating and investigation of these crimes, he said in a written reply to a question from Congress of the People s Deidre Carter.SAPS, Nhleko said, does not have specialised units to specifically investigate crimes committed on farms and small holdings. Crime committed on farms and smallholdings has, however, been identified as a strategic priority and is being dealt with as such. On the rural safety strategy, 815 police stations had implemented the strategy while others have to do so.news@thenewage.co.za