Twenty-four people have been arrested following a spate of public violence and looting of shops in Biesiesvlei, near Lichtenburg.Those arrested are seven men and 17 women aged between 19 and 49.They are expected to appear in the Lichtenburg Magistrate s Court today for possession of suspected stolen property, public violence and malicious damage to property. North West police spokesperson, Brig Sabata Mokgwabone said that the problem started with school children holding a principal hostage on Thursday. Police were summoned to a local secondary school in Itekeng township after allegations that pupils held a 63-year-old principal hostage.The police were informed by pupils upon arrival at the school that they did not want the principal and accused him of insulting them, he said.Mokgwabone said that the hostage incident led to community members pelting the principal s car and classroom windows with stones. A case of malicious damage to property was opened. The incident also led to looting of shops by members of the community. At this stage, the police are investigating cases of public violence and possession of suspected stolen property, he said.Community safety and transport management MEC Dr Mokgantshang Motlhabane condemned violent incidents in communities and called for dialogue.Motlhabane said that it was disturbing that each time there was a service delivery protest, there was the looting of shops, particularly those owned by foreigners, destruction of public and private property, burning of logs and tyres, blocking of traffic on the roads and disruption of schools.He said that in some areas motorists and passengers were threatened, abused and victimised. In other instances, vehicles were stoned, burned and vandalised.Motlhabane said communities that are engaging in unlawful protests are deliberately disrespecting the democratic processes, had somewhat lost hope and abandoned the need for dialogues but chose to violate the Constitution of the country. Our communities are well aware of processes they have to follow to express their dissatisfaction regarding service delivery issues or any other cause of dissatisfaction. In this era of democracy and freedom, we don t expect to see communities attacking other people s businesses, be it businesses of local people or foreign owned. We are living in a democratic era where the government is committed to listening to the complaints and dissatisfaction of communities. Municipalities are strategically placed closer to our communities before matters are brought to the attention of the province or at the national level, he said. As the government, it is mandatory that from time to time we have continuous engagements with the communities on different platforms and forums. The premier s established Bua Le Puso and Setsokotsane operational call centre whose main objectives are to afford the citizens of Bokone Bophirima the opportunity to directly raise issues, concerns and dissatisfaction as well as address such with immediate interventions. But the platform and forums offer the government spheres and officials to also provide the citizens with reports and feedback. Hence we are saying there are a whole lot of engagements established to deal with the day-to-day frustrations of communities. Communities are called upon to take advantage of these platforms and forums, Motlhabane said.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za