In Ahmed Kathrada, a brother and a redoubtable freedom fighter has been lost, former minister in the presidency Essop Pahad, said yesterday.Pahad offered a moving tribute to his brother and mentor , ANC struggle icon Kathrada, who died in the early hours of yesterday morning at the Donald Gordon Hospital in Johannesburg, aged 87.He described Kathrada s death as a profound loss to him and to the country. He said that in Kathrada s death, South Africa lost one of the remaining beacons of hope for a non-racial and non-sexist society. It was a lifelong commitment, and what drove Kathy was that deep-seated hatred for racism or chauvinism in any form of manifestation and you know from the beginning, if anybody demonstrated that kind of racism or chauvinism, Kathy would come down on you like a ton of bricks, Pahad said. He s a South African of Indian origin, but for Kathy there was never any hint of being Indian, he saw himself first and foremost as a patriot of South Africa and also an African as part of this continent. As tributes from political parties and civil society organisations poured in yesterday, Pahad praised Kathrada for his enduring sense of internationalism .He said that it was this understanding that informed Kathrada s views that the struggle for liberation in South Africa was tied to other anticolonial struggles on the continent. He also taught us about the continent, about the anticolonial struggles. So ideologically, we were brought up to understand that our struggle was very closely connected to the anticolonial struggles in the African continent, he said.Pahad, making reference to Kathrada s commitment towards self-determination, said people could best honour his memory by putting their shoulders to the wheel on South Africa s campaign against Israel s continued occupation of the state of Palestine. In the last few years, Kathy was leading the campaign on the release of Salah Khawaja from the dungeons of Israel. If people want to do anything in his memory, one of the things we need to do is intensify the solidarity campaign for all political prisoners languishing in the dungeons of Israel, he said. And together with that, we should intensify the campaign to impose all-round sanctions on that apartheid state called Israel. One of the legacies we should protect of Kathrada is internationalism. Pahad, acknowledging Kathrada s sternness, said that his late friend was a stickler for discipline. When I was 18, I was elected to the executive committee of the Transvaal Indian Union Youth Congress (TIYC) and Kathy was the undoubted leader of the TIYC. We learned a great deal from Kathy, Pahad said. Kathy taught us many things about what was happening in South Africa but one of the things he taught very powerfully was to have discipline discipline in your political life, discipline in your social life. Pahad also said Kathrada was actively involved in South Africa s liberation struggle. He got involved in Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) activities. At some point he was unhappy with the way some of the ideas were developing on how to intensify the armed struggle. For a while I think he stepped back, he said. But he got arrested in Rivonia and he was involved in discussions with Govan Mbeki and Mandela about Operation Mayibuye. So, Kathy was involved. Being in the underground of the South African Communist Party (SACP), working with MK, working with Madiba in terms of how to intensify the armed struggle. Pahad said that while the greatest tragedy for Kathy was the fact that he left behind no children, his wife and former minister of public enterprises, Barbara Hogan, filled the void. When he came out of prison he met Barbara Hogan. He s had a partner in Barbara and I must say that Barbara Hogan has been the most wonderful partner to Kathy, he said. She has, she s been absolutely wonderful. Barbara is in her own right a revolutionary freedom fighter having served time in prison and went underground. She was the right person for Kathy at the right time. Kathrada was tried and sentenced to life imprisonment on Robben Island prison with the likes of former president Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.He was one of the eight Rivonia trialists charged in June 1964 with sabotage and sedition against the state.While in prison he obtained four university degrees a BA in history and criminology, B Bibliography in African politics and library science, BA honours in history and BA honours in African politics. He was released from prison on October 15 1989.Kathrada s foundation, established in 2008, partnered with the Nelson Mandela Foundation in 2015 to shoulder the wheel on anti-racism campaigns.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za