Banks are under fire over claims that they are not serious about transformation and were merely trying to appease the ANC by belatedly setting up a fund to finance black businesses.The country s biggest banks and financial services institutions say a black business growth fund, possibly as big as R100bn, could be what the country needs to create meaningful black participation in the economy. The idea of the fund has the overall support of the ANC. The fund will be set up by the financial sector as whole, including the major banks, insurance companies and asset managers. We re talking about black people who have to get access to the economy, but for this they need money, ANC head of economic policy and transformation Godongwana said in an interview with Bloomberg yesterday. In the financial sector s new charter, there s a proposal of some funding that s going to come from the financial sector, which is going to be an impressive figure, he said, declining to give the amount. We are dealing with an environment where unless you change the economy and the ownership patterns, you are sitting over time on something which is going to confront you in a violent way, Godongwana said. South Africans, the majority of them, will not feel that they have a claim in the state and therefore have nothing to defend, he said.But critics say that since the provinces started making noises about moving their considerable accounts away from the big four banks, the banks have taken fright and come up with the proposal in the hope it will deflect the criticism. This (fund) is the same old story.No changes were brought about by the financial sector charter which came into effect in January 2004 as a transformation policy, Chris Malekane, associate economics professor at Wits University said. Why now? This looks like a fight back strategy. Because of some threats, the financial sector is coming up with delaying tactics, in fear of losing lucrative governments accounts, he said. Malekane said the ANC should continue to push for a state bank rather than being opportunistic. It must push nationalisation, he said. Asief Mohamed at Aeon Investment Management, said the fund could be worth as much as R100bn and would encourage the sector to create competition. This was proposed two years ago by Absa to encourage the sector to create competition, Mohamed said. However, that does not hide the fact that banks have been lacking in transformation and that they could have done more in helping the economy to be more inclusive, he said. Analyst Duma Gqubule opposed the idea of such a fund.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za