Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has come under strong pressure to state openly whether he believes President Jacob Zuma should fire Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini.Opposition parties pressed him for a direct answer on more than one occasion in the National Assembly yesterday, but he held firm that it was President Jacob Zuma s constitutional prerogative to appoint and fire ministers.Appointing or firing ministers was not his privilege, as deputy president or leader of government business, Ramaphosa said, adding that he himself like cabinet ministers was evaluated by the president.Answering questions in the National Assembly, he was told by UDM leader Bantu Holomisa that Dlamini was bringing the country and the executive into disrepute through the debacle over the payment of social grants.Holomisa asked him straight up if he would advise President Zuma about Dlamini s unfitness to hold office or any other executive position. Members of executive are evaluated by the president who appoints them. The president evaluates the deputy president and members of executive on an ongoing basis. What you are saying really belongs in realm of the president s prerogative, Ramaphosa said.Ramaphosa s response was almost identical to the one he had earlier given to DA leader Mmusi Maimane, who asked him if he would support calls for Dlamini s resignation in the interest of South Africa. The Constitutional Court is dealing with this matter. Now, they are dealing with matter effectively. The highest court in our land is going to deliberate on this matter as they did in the past and they are going to make a ruling. Let us allow the institution that has been put in place to deal with this matter, he said.Ramaphosa also skirted an attempt by EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu to lure him into criticising President Zuma s support for the expropriation of land without compensation, a position which differs from that of the ANC. The same question was asked last week and it seems like the honourable Shivambu is indicating it s going to be asked on an ongoing basis. The issue of land is important and should be seen as important to all South Africans. There was a great injustice done to the black majority. I experienced it twice in my family, in my mother s family side when we were moved in 1962, Ramaphosa said.When President Zuma, said Ramaphosa, spoke about this matter, which has been raised by all and sundry and not only the EFF, he speaks from a deep seated pain . When dealing with the land issue it is not going to be sufficient to just shout slogans. We ve got to find practical ways. Amending the Constitution was a strategy, but it was not the only one. We all feel the pain. You don t feel the pain of land deprivation alone. The commitment that is on this side of the House is so deep. We are going to solve it. news@thenewage.co.za