Without a doubt, Anthony Govender has been a significant sway on the corporate healthcare and employee benefit consulting industry in South Africa.The cofounder and CEO of ASI Financial Services is a man on a mission and his undertaking is quite a clear one to empower all South Africans through financial literacy.Deeply entrenched in his heart is an urge to drive the transformation of a rather lopsided financial services sector that remains largely untransformed.Understandably so, the renowned corporate financial advisor has spent the last 20 years in the employee benefits and insurance industry.But his journey has not always been rosy. The Pietermaritzburg-born CEO is the last born in a family of seven. He was born and raised in a zinc house on the North Coast of KwaZulu-Natal and moved to Gauteng in 1996.He was raised by a single mother who worked as a textile worker.But none of his childhood challenges were enough to deter him from rising to become a dominant figure in his industry and beyond.Govender has served in the capacity of CEO of ASI since 2008 and is also actively involved with government lobbying as far as social security reform is concerned. It was these humble beginnings that shaped my purpose in business, of breaking the cycle of poverty by creating a financial and actuarial advisory business that is committed to addressing the financial illiteracy and the social grant dependency problem that exists in South Africa, he said.ASI s corporate social investment (CSI) strategy is centred on three key pillars that have a direct impact on the people of South Africa. These are crime, healthcare and education.The company s decision to partner with charities including SOS Children s Villages and Acres of Love goes to ASI s core philosophy of redefining Africa through creating future leaders by supporting programmes that uplift and provide education and care to the youth of South Africa.Govender has noted that local entrepreneurs, especially black-owned businesses in the financial services sector, have found it challenging to grow and have been negatively impacted by the slow pace of transformation.This, among other reasons, pushed him to form ASI. We started ASI because of the lack of transformation and market dominance by global consulting businesses who have no commitment to the African or South African agenda, he said. These businesses have the majority of their shareholding offshore with little interest in the development of local skills or community upliftment. They simply profit from the country with little or no reinvestment. I suppose our competitors approach is premium and profit whilst ASI s approach is people. He added that the refusal and, in some instances, the reluctance of established financial services businesses in the sector to invest in black enterprise development and BBBEE was also a motivation for the formation of ASI.Govender co-founded ASI as a black-owned corporate employee benefits consultancy in 2008 with Vusi Maswili as a market disrupter to create South Africa s largest independent wholly-owned black corporate employee benefits brokerage.To date, ASI is the only black-owned and managed corporate employee benefit advisory firm amongst the top tier consulting businesses in South Africa, serving 136000 client beneficiaries since acquiring some of SA s largest corporate contracts. Our purpose is that of empowering South African communities through financial literacy and by investing and developing the best financial advisory skills the SA market has to offer. The country has a problem and we have creative solutions to the problem, he said.Govender said the road to establishing ASI was quite a thorny one. But the bullying tactics of some industry players out to thwart smaller players and force advisors to support products that are not best suited for their clients, would not deter Govender. ASI simply refused to conform to market practice like our competitors and chose to do what is best for our clients by putting them first. We live by the guiding principle of placing people before profit. We insist on value for our clients, he said.Govender said that his team was working closely with the regulatory authorities and government, who have been a huge advocate for ASI as a business, to address the anti-competitive behaviour of global or established consulting firms.Generally, in South Africa, those in the financial services industry are seen as conservative and are routinely criticised by entrepreneurs and unions as being an impediment to development.In fact, within the financial services sector, the total investment and savings industry is estimated at R6.5 trillion. However, only 4.4% (R283bn) is being managed by black South African firms.Govender s journey in the financial services industry started with executive roles at NMG South Africa and listed financial institutions such as Momentum Employee Benefits and PSG Konsult.When he looks back, Govender said he can only be grateful to those who have backed the transformation agenda. We are extremely grateful to the South African business community, in particular decision makers who are supportive of the transformation agenda, he said.Govender has challenged the government to do more to help transform the sector. He said the government needs to legislate that certain services be procured locally. The government has to enforce corporate companies across all sectors to support local business.I am mindful that we cannot implement a policy that deters foreign investment but at the same time we cannot allow global business to stifle local business due their vested financial interests. We are committed to supporting smaller South African businesses especially in our industry to continue to grow, he said.He is also convinced that there is a need for stricter policy and firm enforcement by the government. International advisory brands, in our opinion, are destroying the development of our industry. These businesses are built by global relationships rather than client value, Govender said.He added that investing long term in the transformation of the sector can only be achieved if local business and the government join hands.Govender said established corporate businesses in the sector, especially large international institutions, have no appetite to part with equity to South African empowered partners and always marginalise equity partners to minority stakes.He describes the practice as merely a tick the box exercise. If we are to make a meaningful contribution to our industry, we (South Africans) need to have control over the strategic direction of businesses in our country, in this way we are enabled to become creative about dealing with the country s challenges, he said. It is for this reason that our board refused offers from competitors trying to buy us out. The typical approach of our market is to either bully you or buy you out. ASI is simply not for sale. We are a purpose driven business that intends making a difference to South Africa s communities. He also called on insurers to have an obligation to support the enhancement of the advisor in the industry and not just focus on lining their pockets.Govender said at least 85% of the advisory market are tied agents force feeding their clients product rather than financial advice. Several insurers fund enterprise development initiatives but these funds sit in the hands of the minority in the country, with the majority never gaining fair and equitable access. We need policy enforcement, he said.His advice for entrepreneurs is that developing a business with one s life savings alone requires creative thinking, resilience and tenacity. As a rapidly growing business, cash flow management, skills and time have always been singled out to be our three major challenges. We have always overcome these challenges by leadership, forward thinking and risk management strategies that consider the volatility and depression of our industry, he said.He said that the result is that we have been the fastest growing brokerage in SA over the last four years .But that is not enough for Govender, whose desire is to conquer more ground. He will stop at nothing until the industry transforms.