The ANC is concerned about the number of people who leave the ruling party to join other political parties due to disagreements.Such behaviour was continuing to cause factions within the ANC and hinder the party s mission to serve its voters with one vision.Premier David Mabuza, in his capacity as the ANC provincial chairperson said this during a conference of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in Mbombela at the weekend.Mabuza, who is also serving his third term as the ruling party s provincial leader, said the party was on a mission to engage with all its members who had defected to other parties to resolve their differences and consider returning to their political home which was the ANC.He said among the targeted members were the EFF leader, Julius Malema. He (Malema) was expelled from the ANC almost five years ago and later formed the EFF. I still think that if we had him in the ranks of the ANC, we could be better. We can live together. We are not a homogenous group. We have different personalities but we are stronger when all of them are within the ANC. We are weaker when people leave the ANC. So we must learn to coexist and tolerate one another. I am just sending a message that he must expect me. I am coming and not afraid of him and he knows because it is about our country. It is about our beloved country, Mabuza said.He had already spoken to former ANCYL deputy president Ronald Lamola about the matter.Speaking on the SABC radio current affairs yesterday morning, Lamola said he welcomed the call from Mabuza to recruit back their members because everyone makes mistakes and later sees the need to rectify them.Mabuza further called on the ANCYL not to attempt to engage themselves in discussions regarding the leadership succession in the ANC when President Jacob Zuma vacates his position. It is still too early for us including the ANCYL to make speculation as to who should succeed the president. It would be wrong if we continued to do so while we have already been told not to do that. During an interview with The New Age yesterday, ANCYL deputy president Desmond Moela said it was Mabuza s vision to have Malema back in the ANC and the league could not blame Mabuza because he was working to unite the ANC. As the ANCYL at national level, we are aware of the announcement by the chairperson of the ANC in Mpumalanga to take Julius Malema back into the party. However, the league has not yet discussed this, Moela said.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za