The SACP and Cosatu have poured cold water on claims made by former Cosatu general-secretary Zwelinzima Vavi that the ANC s alliance partners had narrow vested interests in the ruling party s December elective conference.SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo did not take Vavi s remarks kindly. He dismissed the comments attributed to Vavi as rubbish . Vavi is seeking attention and one of the ways he does this is to pass negative remarks against the SACP and sometimes extend negative remarks to Cosatu. The SACP did not endorse any candidate for succession, neither did Nzimande or Nxesi endorse any candidate on behalf of the party, he said.Mashilo s remarks were a response to yesterday s media briefing by Vavi, who charged that senior Cosatu and SACP leaders pinned their hopes on Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa taking the reins as ANC president in order to retain their positions in the government.Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla also echoed Mashilo s sentiment. He s making all sorts of wild allegations. Was he not the one who endorsed (President) Jacob Zuma when we went to Polokwane? He was there leading the charge. He is now using us as a prop to gain national attention, he said.Vavi said earlier that while Cosatu used the national minimum wage deal as leverage for Ramaphosa to get elected as ANC president, SACP Cabinet members feared losing their positions should Ramaphosa fail to get elected. They know if the other faction in the ANC called the Premier League succeeds and imposes a president anointed by President Jacob Zuma, their days in Cabinet will be numbered. Blade Nzimande knows this (Higher Education Minister), Thulas Nxesi (Public Works Minister) knows this. All of them know that if the Premier League win in December, they are out of Cabinet and there s no chance whatsoever. Vavi also slammed Cosatu for endorsing Ramaphosa to succeed Zuma as ANC president. They want to give him (Ramaphosa) a false trophy even if there is no trophy. They are advancing the interests of Ramaphosa. Cosatu is responsible for the quagmire South Africa is in today. They can t learn, the mistake committed on Jacob Zuma is going to be repeated over and over. They are advancing their own interests on a personal level to get to Cabinet, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za