The University of Johannesburg (UJ) has recorded the highest number of graduates this year.According to the university, almost 9 500 students will grace the stage of the institution s newly refurbished auditorium from today.The 1 000-seater auditorium was destroyed by a blaze in May last year. UJ vice-chancellor Prof Ihron Rensburg said the last few months had been extraordinary times for universities in the country, including UJ. Notwithstanding the challenging times, the university ensured a climate of stability and has delivered fully on our promise made to parents and sponsors that the academic programme would be completed without losing a single teaching and research day, Rensburg said. As a result, the year-end examinations commenced undisrupted. This is an achievement for each of our graduates and for the university as a whole. The students performance makes it very clear that UJ is fulfilling its mandate to empower individuals and through them families and communities, while it is making exceptional contributions to research, innovation and community engagement. Rensburg expressed pride at the graduates achievements, saying despite a difficult academic year, they had achieved a new record of undergraduate module success rate of 85.4% in 2016. Overall annual graduate output is now in excess of 12000 graduates a year, and we are proud that 93% of students obtain employment within 12 months of graduation, signalling the value of our qualifications to South African and international employers, he said.During the autumn graduation season, running from March 27 to May 18, 4 915 students will be conferred with undergraduates degrees, 2 614 undergraduate diplomas and 1 967 with a postgraduate qualification. There will be 38 doctoral degrees awarded, while 1 600 honours degrees and 204 masters degrees are to be conferred. The excellent results are testimony to the dedication and hard work of our academics, professional support staff and the university s First Year Experience programme (FYE).A strong foundation in students first year allows them to build solid academic success, Rensburg said The FYE initiative, with the emphasis on student tutors mentoring fellow students, is designed to assist the school-to-university transition. As part of the UJ s academic excellence programmes, trained student advisers are assisting first-year students across UJ residences. Due to these interventions, the success rate for first-time entering undergraduate students increased. TNA REPORTERnews@thenewage.co.za