AMAJITA can seal their U-20 World Cup qualification spot today, provided they beat Senegal in their second match of the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations in Zambia. Group B leaders South Africa take on the second place and winless Senegal side at Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola at 6pm. Thabo Senong s team left the country last week with a mandate to book their place at May s global showpiece in South Korea.A top four finish at Afcon will guarantee SA a spot in the tournament, which they last participated in eight years ago. At the Afcon, South Africa made things a little easier when they thrashed Cameroon 3-1 in their opening match. Amajita came back from a goal down to secure the victory and ensure a good start thanks to Luther Singh s hat-trick.A win over Senegal will mean SA are through to both the Afcon semifinals and World Cup finals. Before the Cameroon game, Senong said he didn t want his players to think much about qualifying for the World Cup and wants them to continue with the same mentality to today s match. Our main focus is to take one game at a time, like now, the focus is solely on Senegal. We won t talk about semifinals, we won t talk about winning the tournament because we are working with youngsters and sometimes they can be inconsistent, Senong said. They played very well but sometimes we need to push them into the right performance zone. The coach believes Senegal, who kicked off the tournament with a draw against Sudan, are a dangerous side. They didn t have the best match against Sudan because of the early red card and the early penalty. I still believe this is one of the best teams in the group. In the qualifiers they defeated Ghana and Tunisia and have not lost in the past six months. Ahead of their second match, South Africa have received a major boost as they welcomed back Bidvest Wits star Phakamani Mahlambi and U 20 captain Tercious Malepe. While Malepe was serving a yellow card suspension in the previous match, Wits were reluctant to release Mahlambi until Safa threatened to take action against the club. Before the tournament started we were the only team that came with 19 players so it was important to have all our players available. We are happy now that we don t have any injury, suspension or unavailability issues. Tercious is the captain and the leader of the team. Phakamani is the senior player of the team. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi