The ANC has welcomed all recommendations made by the ad hoc committee on the SABC as well as recommendations made in its report adopted by the National Assembly.The ANC also called for a swift appointment of an interim board, which it said, had to ensure that a forensic investigation was undertaken in order for those found to have collapsed the SABC to be held to account.Tabled last week, the report, which among its recommendations, calls on President Jacob Zuma to reconsider Communications Minister Faith Muthambi s Cabinet position, was accepted by all political parties, except the UDM, in the National Assembly yesterday.Afterwards ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu who had called for the report to be accepted said in a statement the adoption of the report brought finalised an elaborate and transparent process led by the ad hoc committee. We applaud the members of this committee in executing their duties with absolute distinction. This committee is an exceptional example of how members of Parliament ought to execute their oversight functions without fear or favour. We equally appreciate the work of the support staff deployed to this committee who went above and beyond their call of duty to ensure that the inquiry meets its deadlines, he said.Mthembu said the ANC welcomed all recommendations as adopted by the National Assembly. He also called for the urgent appointment of the interim board as there was no accounting authority in the SABC. We want to encourage the portfolio committee on communications to act with the necessary speed in appointing the interim board to ensure that the recommendations of the ad hoc committee are implemented. Once appointed, he said, the interim board, should restore stability by taking decisive action against those SABC executives who failed to execute their fiduciary duties, flouted the rules and threatened and manipulated the thousands of good people working at the SABC. The interim board must also ensure that a forensic investigation is conducted in order for those who are found to have collapsed the SABC to be held to account. The work done by this ad hoc committee reasserts Parliament s role of oversight and accountability. This good example will be the norm moving forward to ensure that the SABC operates in the public interest and meets its mandate as a public broadcaster, Mthembu said.During yesterday s debate on the ad hoc committee report Vincent Smith, who chaired the inquiry, told the House about the work done.He said the SABC has an acting CEO, acting chief financial officer and acting chief operating officer. This state of affairs cannot be allowed to continue. DA deputy chief whip Mike Waters accused Muthambi of having committed perjury under oath while giving evidence to the committee.He also accused her and former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng of having run a reign of terror at the SABC. The DA would ask the public protector to investigate her, he said. The DA no longer has faith in Minister Mothambi and she must be fired. IFP chief whip Narend Singh said the SABC story was one of unchecked greed, power, corruption and incompetence, while the EFF s Fana Mokoena said the heart of problems at SABC was that it was used to fighting democracy and internal ANC battles. The EFF made a point that the report must say the SABC was at the heart of state capture, he said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za