The second edition of Comedy Under the Sun, led by the award-winning comedian, Mashabela Galane, will combine the art of comedy and music.The all-day comedy festival is a picnic styled comedy affair at Dries Niemands Picnic Park in Kempton Park tomorrow. Gates to the once in a lifetime comedy experience open at 12am and close at 10pm.The musical line=up features Jub Jub who will be appearing for the first time on stage since his parole in January.The rapper who was arrested following the 2010 incident when he smashed his car into school children in Soweto, killing four and leaving two others brain damaged, is expected to give his music fans a treat on stage after the release of his single, Ke Kopa Tshwarelo, which followed his release.Galane who was born in Limpopo said he believed in second chances. Jub Jub will be making his first stage performance after being released from prison, Galane said. I believe in second chances and that is why I called him up and included him in the line-up of musicians who will be performing at the show. This show is a first of its kind in the country. It is different from the theatre and indoor comedy shows that comedians go for. I saw a gap in the market and realised how much like music festivals, comedy could also be done outdoors. Other musical acts on the line-up include Metro FM nominated Afro-soul trio Encore, King Monada and Candy Tsamandebele and for gospel music lovers, Galane called on award-winning singer Winnie Mashaba.The talented pioneer of vernacular comedy has also brought comedians from other provinces into the fold, with comedians from KZN, Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga, Limpopo and the Free State on the line-up. Unlike other vernacular comedy shows which use comedians who reside in Johannesburg, I have gone the extra mile of bringing in comedians who are based outside of Johannesburg, he said.The list includes Pastor J, Mr Nice Guy, Skool Boy, Thabang ER and Rale Malatji among many others.Tired and tested comedians, also representing vernacular languages from across the country, will see the likes of Celeste Ntuli, Siya B, Chris Mapane, Ntosh Madlingozi and Shampoonizer set the stage alight with their comedy skills. As the name suggests, this comedy show takes place under the sun and so far there have not been any sponsors for us to take it to other parts of the country. But I believe once things fall into place and people know about us, sponsors will come, he said.Galane is also working on a TV project and a comedy album, which will see him perform his award-winning material over musical instruments.He has a new brand of juice that he plans to use to conquer the beverage industry in the near future and plans to have the punchy cocktail available in stores before the end of the year.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za