If the pre-match press conference between Pitso Mosimane and Steve Komphela yesterday was anything to go by, then we should expect a fierce battle when Kaizer Chiefs host Mamelodi Sundowns in their crunch PSL fixture at FNB Stadium tomorrow night.It was a case of mind games at the press conference as both coaches addressed the media in Johannesburg. It started when Mosimane mentioned that his side were underdogs as they have not had much rest must playing catch-up fixtures in the league as a result of their involvement in the CAF Champions League. We are the underdogs at this point in time because Kaizer Chiefs have been better in the league, Mosimane said. If you can check the last maybe eight games there was a stage where they went five games in a row unbeaten in the league so we envy them and we wish we could do five in a row also. They ve also drawn three and we have drawn two and lost one, so we are not in a very good space at the moment and if I understood well their medical room is empty and ours is full. So that s also one of the things that make us not to be in a good space. However, Komphela disagreed with Mosimane and said Sundowns achievements are clear for everyone to see. I don t agree with Mr Mosimane, underdogs? I beg to differ. Underdogs in what sense? Underdogs are not defined based on strings.The underdog tag is very dangerous. Maybe Mr Mosimane is seeking some divine favour which we don t know. I am not going to allow him to get any favours. They are not underdogs, they are deadly, their achievements are clear. We are not going to buy into that. We will give them the respect they deserve, we just have to get on with the business. Komphela, meanwhile, will be looking to register his first victory against Sundowns having suffered three defeats in the past against Mosimane since he took over at the Soweto giants. Both teams will be relying on their star players with Chiefs looking to Siphiwe Tshabalala to produce his magic, while Sundowns have goals coming all over the place. The Brazilians will be boosted by the return of Khama Billiat and Anthony Laffor from injuries.-Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za