It s unclear whether or not Kamohelo Mokotjo will honour his latest Bafana Bafana call-up which comes at a time where he is trying to move on with his career as a Dutch citizen.Even though Mokotjo will not be able to immediately switch his national team allegiance and be eligible for selection for the Netherlands, prohibited by Fifa s laws, there can be no guarantees he will turn up for camp on March 19. The FC Twente midfielder was yesterday named in the 25-man Bafana squad for the upcoming friendly matches against Guinea Bissau and Angola.This is the first time Mokotjo has been picked since he called time on his international career last April. His decision had followed a fallout with former coach Shakes Mashaba over his continued exclusion from the starting team. The 25-year-old midfield anchor, who has four Bafana caps, called Mashaba a loudmouth who was only picking him to silence the critics.And in a public address to Safa, he vowed not to honour any callups in the near future until circumstances change . Yet stand-in coach Owen Da Gama has seen fit to include Mokotjo, who has started 23 matches for Twente this season. I haven t spoken to him (Mokotjo).We have sent out a callup to him like we do with all the players, Da Gama said. We monitor the performances of all players, including those overseas, to inform our selection. Da Gama, who served as an assistant to Mashaba, has been put temporarily in charge of the team, this as the nation awaits news on the new Bafana coach. I have been put in charge for these two games and we will give as many players a run so that when the qualifiers come we are not found wanting. It is important to give as many players a chance as possible. The national team hasn t been active since November 2016, that s a sixmonth break.So our mission is to prepare a team that will tackle the upcoming 2018 World Cup and 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. It wasn t quite the ushering in of a new era as Da Gama picked pretty much the same team which did duty in the last two World Cup qualifier matches. But there were recalls for Mokotjo and France-based Kermit Erasmus as well as Bidvest Wits Darren Keet and Cape Town City duo of Shu-aib Walters and in-form striker Lebohang Manyama.Among the new faces are Kaizer Chiefs defender Lorenzo Gordinho, Phakamani Mahlambi of Wits, Mamelodi Sundowns midfielder Percy Tau and Portugal-based striker Luther Singh.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za