A 47-year-old farm tenant who allegedly shot and wounded a man, claiming he mistook him for a monkey, will appear in the Ritavi Magistrate s Court outside Tzaneen next month.The suspect was arrested for shooting Ishmael Mathenene, 51, on March 8 and appeared briefly in court last week on charges of attempted murder. He was released on R5000 bail.The case was postponed to April 28 for further investigation. Police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the victim was sent by his foreman from Novengilla Group 91 farm to collect something from a storeroom. On his way back, he was riding a bicycle when he was shot in the head and fell. The suspect, who allegedly used a pellet gun, said he mistook the victim for a monkey, Mojapelo said.Mathenene was taken to hospital where he was treated for head injuries. Provincial police commissioner LtGen Nneke Ledwaba called on shooters to make proper identification of targets before using their firearms. I want to issue a strong warning to anyone with a tendency of shooting at human beings believing them to be animals that police will act swiftly in arresting them, Ledwaba said.Cope national chairperson Pakes Dikgetsi said recent killings of people mistaken for monkeys or warthogs by farmers and hunters were wicked acts. As much as we condemn the killing of farmers by criminals in the country, Cope wants to strongly condemn the shooting and killing of innocent people mistaken for animals by farmers. It doesn t matter whether you are a black or white farmer. We are all humans and deserve to be treated with respect, Diketsi said.In another development, a farmer in Modimolle, Stephen Heburn, 39, allegedly shot dead Jan Railwa, 23.Heburn claimed he was aiming at a wild pig. He will appear in court on April 20 on a charge of murder.The incident was also condemned by locals and trade unions as another example that black people s rights were being violated on the farms. Heburn was granted R5000 bail amid public demonstrations outside court by EFF and ANC supporters demanding that he remain locked up.montshom@thenewage.co.za