The R50bn South African energy and metallurgical cluster, which it is envisaged will create about 22000 direct jobs within the Musina-Makhado Special Economic Zone (SEZ), has entered the implementation phase after the signing of an operator agreement at the weekend.The Trade and Industry Department said yesterday the operator agreement for the cluster was signed by the MusinaMakhado SEZ (SOC) and Shenzhen Hoimor Resources Holding company. The industrial park will include power, coking, ferrochrome, ferromanganese, ferrosilicon, pig iron metallurgy, lime, steel and stainless steel plants.These projects will be implemented over five years. Chinese investors, led by Shenzhen Hoimor Resources Holding company, will develop, operate and manage the South African energy and metallurgical cluster and is also the anchor investor in the zone. The initial investment is a $3.8bn (R49.4bn) complex.The metallurgical cluster is expected to produce high grade steel for the domestic and export market, and its manufacturing capacity will consist of a power, coking, ferrochrome, pig iron, steel, stainless steel, lime plants and supporting facilities. Speaking at the signing, chairperson of the Musina-Makhado SEZ (SOC), Tshepo Phetla, said he was looking forward to having the spin-offs of this agreement stimulating the economic growth of the region of Vhembe and the province at large. The whole concept of industrialisation that we are on, steers us on a right trajectory to try to industrialise the province. This is one project that I believe will revolutionise the province in terms of its quest to industrialise. We believe that this partnership with Shenzen will take us far and will create 22000 direct jobs, Phetla said. The chief executive of Hoimor, Yihai Ning, said he was glad to have his organisation as part of this ground-breaking agreement. He also vowed Shenzen Hoimor would build a world-class metallurgical hub of international standards. The chief director for SEZs at the Department of Trade and Industry, Alfred Tau, said the signing opened the way and brought closer the actual development of the Musina-Makhado SEZ, especially the metallurgical component thereof. What that development will do is give us capabilities in a number of key value chains, especially in the steel sector and energy generation. This opens opportunities for the people in the region of Musina-Makhado and South Africa at large. So it is a significant milestone as we get closer and closer to full implementation of this project, he said.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za