Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini yesterday lamented South Africa Social Security Agency s (Sassa s) ongoing battle to secure a credible service provider for distributing social grants being used as a game of political football.In an interview with The New Age, Dlamini said that while the agency saw the South African Post Office (Sapo) as an option to providing a long-term solution to Sassa s battle to secure a service provider for the payment of social grants, the looming April 1 deadline for Sassa to pay 17 million beneficiaries was being used as a tool for political point scoring. Things look innocent at face value and people are standing up saying we created this thing.For them it s about money and banks. For us it s about finding a people-centred way of paying grants. We are being fought because we never took banks along. We said we would work with the old service provider, Cash Paymaster Services (CPS), and then gradually introduce the post office, the minister said. This has R10bn in it: there are companies that have been getting a lot of money through this, there are banks that have been getting money and the human element, which is people centred, has been thrown away. Dlamini s comments come against the background the Parliament s standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) instructing the minister to appear before it today.This also follows Dlamini being on the receiving end of pressure from the ANC s alliance partners Cosatu and the SACP, for her to find a long-lasting solution to the Sassa s social grant bungle.Dlamini, making reference to Cosatu s call for President Jacob Zuma to give her the marching orders over the matter, said the attacks from Cosatu were unwarranted.She accused the trade union federation of using the Sassa matter as a political axe to grind ahead of the ANC s December elective conference. The whole issue is about the conference.When I did not attend a National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) meeting and gave an apology, Bheki Ntshalintshali (Cosatu general secretary) said I was busy with factions. And when the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) marched to the social development offices, they said I m busy with factions. We all know Cosatu has taken a position of who they support and therefore all of a sudden Nehawu is having marches. Dlamini said the department would also continue talking with Sapo on the possibility of the state-owned enterprise assisting Sassa with the payment of grants. We are going to introduce the post office. We are going to have an open tender process, she said.Dlamini also said the department had already been engaged in talks with CPS as well as the national Treasury. She said that during the discussions, the department had Sassa s contract with CPS ending in March this year in mind. It s not like we are blind around October and December. We also continued talking with the Treasury, she said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za