President Jacob Zuma has wrapped up his participation in the Indian Ocean Rim Association (Iora) Leaders Summit.Zuma, giving his concluding remarks yesterday, hailed the summit convened under the theme of Strengthening Maritime Cooperation for a Peaceful, Stable and Prosperous Indian Ocean, as a milestone in its two decade existence. We celebrated a significant milestone in the history of the association, namely 20 years of existence. With the adoption and singing of the Iora Concord and its action plan for implementation that the council of ministers will take forward, we are well placed to take Iora into the next decade, Zuma said. The concord has greatly elevated the status of the association. We look forward to all the members signing the document in due course. Zuma s comments come on the back of his arrival earlier this week in Indonesia to attend the 21 member state summit and also to pay a courtesy visit to President Joko Widodo.South Africa and Indonesia are both founding members of Iora.Zuma, making reference to the outcome of the summit, welcomed agreements made in the business forum. South Africa welcomes the key outcome of the business summit, which was the declaration signed between the chambers of commerce and business communities of Iora member states, he said. Their support and involvement is critical to us achieving our goals of greater economic cooperation that are enshrined in the Iora charter. Zuma committed to continued cooperation between South Africa and Indonesia on matters on common concern. I am pleased that we will continue to work with Indonesia very closely in the Iora Troika as we strive to ensure continuity and the consolidation of the solid platform that was laid by Indonesia, Australia and India as Iora chairs before us, he said.Speaking earlier this week at the opening of the summit, Zuma stressed the importance of empowering women in an effort to rope more women into the socio-economic mainstream. Gender empowerment is a key priority for the association. We must therefore ensure that our programmes and interactions also empower women, especially through fledging small and medium ocean economy enterprises, he said.Zuma also relayed South Africa s intentions to work with its Iora partners on benefiting from its ocean economy. Our Operation Phakisa ocean economy programme, modelled on Malaysia s Big Fast Results economic implementation programme is already bearing fruit. It is unlocking the potential of the oceans and creating jobs, generating investment, developing our infrastructure and protecting our ocean space, Zuma said. We look forward to cooperating with partners in Iora in harnessing benefits from the ocean economy programme. We should also not lose sight of the need to continue the fight against global inequality and economic exclusion, which also pose serious threats to peace and stability in Iora. -TNA REPORTER