The North West provincial legislature stands to be a pacesetter in resolving the emotive yet unavoidable land question as it seeks to hold a referendum on the subject.The referendum, to start soon, will allow members of the public to have their say on land ownership patterns and what has to be done going forward.Premier Supra Mahumapelo challenged the legislature to start the process when he gave his response to the state of the province address at the provincial legislature in Mahikeng yesterday.Mahumapelo said that time had come when the imbalances of the past should be dismantled and a new equitable status quo established. When we consider this emotive issue of land, what we must think of is what we as present leaders would like to bequeath to our future generations. What legacy do we want to leave for our children, hence the need to get members of the public to have their say, he said.Mahumapelo said that the referendum should be initiated without further delay and views collected implemented, for that would be the voice of the people.He decried the subjugation of black people who had been crammed into arid regions after they were driven off their ancestral land that used to provide for them and their animals.The premier said that a referendum would allow an orderly process that would be decided by the will of the people. It s not just the ownership issue that needs to be addressed, we need to look at the pricing of land and work on a price tag that does not exclude anyone. If anything, the price should be determined by the government in a way that ensures access, he said to loud applause.The premier decried that the current situation was born out of the willing seller willing buyer principle that has largely failed as it preserved the skewed apartheid status quo.The call for a referendum was largely welcomed as the best move to look into colonial imbalances.ANC chief whip in the provincial legislature Hoffman Galeng welcomed the call for a referendum and said that it was long overdue. We don t have words to describe the pain black people have gone through over this issue for so many years and as the ruling party, we no longer have excuses why land has not been returned to its owners. As such, the idea of the referendum is welcome and we want to see it implemented speedily, he said.Galeng said that putting the issue to a referendum would allow every citizen to have a say so that those who had made land a subject for political jockeying could not have excuses. We have situations where disadvantaged people, particularly black Africans do not have places to build houses and have nowhere to farm. The irony of it is that we have individuals, some of whom stay overseas, who have vast swaths of land they don t have anything to do with. Most black communities cannot have livestock because there is no space. At times, the few they have are taken by farm owners after trespassing on their farms. This cannot be allowed to go on, he said.The chief whip said that the issue of compensating land owners had to be put to the debate as well. We will invite our members from the NCOP so that they re part of this process and, who knows, this may rub off onto other provinces and we can have a national referendum that will decide on this issue, he said.DA provincial leader Joe McGluwa welcomed Premier Mahumapelo s response to the debate but was coy on the issue of a referendum. We have no problem with the referendum on land but we feel it is a coup coming from the premier rather than normal legislature processes. We would ask to say why not call for a referendum on the statue that he wants to build or the fitness of the president to continue in office. However, we will be ready to debate the issue and give our views. This is a national issue and we will lobby our other structures on the matter, he said.EFF provincial chairperson Betty Diale also weighed in, saying her party supported any measures taken to redress colonial imbalances, especially the issue of land.Indications are that processes will soon begin to put the referendum in motion and all political parties, in their different ways, look geared for the exercise.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za