Economic policy is topmost in the minds of labour ahead of the launch of the ANC s policy discussion documents this weekend.Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said urgent interventions from the ANC were needed to address the country s faltering economy. He said that with the country s economy shrinking by 0.3% in the fourth quarter of last year, the ANC needed to take the bull by the horns . We expect the policy documents to put at its centre, the crisis of unemployment, poverty and inequality and also to reflect the intentions of what the ANC said in its 53rd national conference on radical socio-economic transformation, on land and the economy. The second area relates to health and education. The ANC must say we are moving forward with National Health Insurance (NHI) and how it plans to transform the education sector. Dlamini s comments come at a time where the ANC is gearing up for the release of its policy documents ahead of the ruling party s policy conference in June.Dlamini, making reference to growing calls from the SACP for the communists to go it alone at the polls, said that for Cosatu, the ANC-led tripartite alliance needed to remain intact. Yes, we are going through difficult times but we believe the ANC alliance is critical because it s important for workers in South Africa. A lot still needs to be done to strengthen the alliance, he said.The Federation of Unions of South Africa s general-secretary Dennis George said the trust deficit between the government, business and labour threatened to scupper any chances of economic recovery. President Jacob Zuma s dismissal of Nhlanhla Nene (former finance minister) and his push for Des van Rooyen (now Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs) was a low point, he said.However, he said the deal brokered by National Economic Development and Labour Council s social partners on the national minimum wage presented a glimmer of hope. Our first committee in turning around the situation was the introduction of the national minimum wage and the programme to amend the Labour Relations Act on strike ballots. We must also deal with the concentration of wealth, we must support black entrepreneurs. George also said that the country s inequitable patterns of wealth needed to be challenged. Growth has to be inclusive and the GDP levels need to be much higher. We must improve our internship programmes for young graduates and we have to embark on a programme to remove barriers to entry for black people in the economy, he said.Solidarity economic researcher Gerhard van Onselen believed the ANC s proposal on radical economic transformation created an atmosphere of uncertainty in the markets. The current economic trajectory is concerning. We need to move away from radical interventionist policies and ask what are these policies trying to produce? We need to produce more value and move away from policies that cause uncertainty, he said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za