AT A time the nation took a pause to celebrate Human Rights Day, some residents in the Dinokana area, near Zeerust, are wallowing in poverty so desperate it that cries out to the world for something to be done about them.The only thing that keeps the affected households going is a concoction of home-made brew drunk by adults and little ones alike.After the strong beer knocks them out, reckless and unprotected sex becomes the pastime and in some cases a grandmother, her children and grandchildren are all said to be HIV infected.This is the situation that local businessperson and philanthropist Kule Mahumapelo faced when she visited the area to check on the welfare of the elderly. Mahumapelo could not hold back her tears after the experience and has called on the government and the private sector to help in alleviating the suffering of the people.During her recent visit, Mahumapelo and her crew could not reach all the identified homes as they had to spend more time than was planned at the households they visited.At the Mokgosi s household, Mahumapelo donated a wheelchair to Katu Mokgosi, 66, who lives with his mother, Mojanku, 103. Granny Mokgosi thanked Mahumapelo for her gesture, saying the food and wheelchair were a blessing.The visiting team also handed over more wheelchairs, food parcels and sanitary towels for the young girls and sickly adults. At the Moloke homestead in Ikageleng village, 16 people share a makeshift shack.A neighbour who spoke on condition of anonymity said: All the eight adults wake up to go out and drink leaving little children on their own. About three children go to school but no one helps them with homework or washing their clothes.As a result, they go to school unkempt most of the time. The neighbour said that it would be better if the children were taken to boarding school so that they had a better future. Due to negligence by the elderly, two children have been raped and are infected with HIV. Something has to be done for this family, including building them a house at least, the neighbour said.In her remarks, Mahumapelo said: The situation in some of the households in this village is unimaginable. We sometimes sit in the comfort of our homes and think everything is fine but all is not well out there. Mahumapelo said the plight of families had to be urgently attended to. I gathered the beer they drink is a mixture of some powder they buy from shops and yeast. To make it strong, they reportwdly add things like batteries and we are told this goes on to affect the bone marrow content in their bodies and cause other ailments. This is unacceptable, she said.Some of the households are in the hills where vehicles cannot reach. At one such home, a 21-year-old man is taking care of three elderly women who cannot walk. It is extremely worrying that this young man just finished matric and cannot continue with his studies because he has to take care of the three.The arrangement we have made is that the elderly women be moved to an old age home while the young man enrols for tertiary studies so that he builds a better future for himself, she said.One of the three elderly women was also presented with a new wheelchair to ease her mobility challenges. Mahumapelo plans to visit other families in the area this week to continue giving them hope.ELFAS TORERAI