UNDER normal circumstances Baroka FC, along with their star of the week Mxolisi Kunene, would be celebrating their hard-earned draw against Kaizer Chiefs. But as the possibility of relegation draws ever closer, the team have no reason to celebrate what has been a disappointing season.As Baroka continued their unbeaten record against PSL heavyweights Chiefs, Kunene is making all the headlines for his clinical solo effort against a Chiefs side that wanted to sign him before he went to Baroka. Though he does think of the goal as the best of his career to date, the 25-year-old former Moroka Swallows playmaker is more concerned about avoiding relegation.Kunene was in a similar position last year when Swallows were relegated from the NFD to the ABC Motsepe League. Aware of the trauma of dropping down a division, the winger said he will do everything he can to help Baroka stay up. Any player will tell you that no experience in football can equate to being relegated, he said. It is hard. It leaves you hurt and confused. Nothing in football is worse than that. It says that you have left yourself, the team, the fans and your family down. This is why I play with so much optimism because I want to help the team. I don t want to be relegated for two seasons in a row. It was my dream to play in the big league. I am here now and I want to stay here.I don t want to go back to the NFD and Baroka do not deserve to play there. Baroka are bottom of the PSL log with 15 points from 21 matches. For them to survive, they will need to beat Bloemfontein Celtic and Free State Stars, who are also caught in the relegation dogfight. However, the two wins alone will not be enough to ensure safety and Kunene believes Baroka can get more than that.His optimism is a result of Milton Dlamini joining Bakgaga to co-coach with Kgoloko Thobejane. He is helping us with our confidence and having two coaches is better than having one. I have confidence in both of them, Kunene said.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekep Matsebane