Imagine for a moment if you could put yourself in the shoes of the men and women who marched on March 21, 1960 for the total abolition of the pass laws.Unlike today they were not protected by the Constitution and the rule of law. They marched in the knowledge that they would in all probability be met by brutal and unrelenting force but they marched nonetheless.They marched because they knew the fight was bigger than them and their actions would benefit generations to come. Those patriots who took to the streets on that historic day struck a lasting blow for their children and for generations to come.Even though marches were held around the country, the Sharpeville massacre in which 69 people were killed and at least 180 injured became a focal rallying point for protests around the country, and galvanised worldwide outrage. We should also never forget that on the same day police killed two and injured 28 people in Langa who had gathered to protest against pass laws.The Sharpeville massacre was one of the turning points in the history of our country. It exposed the brutality of apartheid for the whole world to see and united our people s unyielding resolve for freedom. It forced the international community to put pressure on the apartheid government to change its oppressive and inhumane policies.This year marks the 57th anniversary of the 1960 march and it will be commemorated throughout the month under the theme The year of OR Tambo: Unity in Action In advancing Human Rights.Though the main event will be held in Ginsberg in King William s Town, Eastern Cape, the government will throughout the month host various activities to raise awareness and promote respect for basic human rights.This month-long commemoration provides us with an opportunity to reflect on the bravery of men and women who marched for freedom and democracy. We honour those who gave their lives to liberate us from the brutality of the apartheid regime, and we salute their unwavering commitment for a more equal and inclusive society.It is sometimes all too easy to forget our freedom and democracy came at a terrible cost. Thousands or ordinary South Africans stood up in defiance of an unrelenting regime deserve to be remembered and should receive rightful recognition for their sacrifice.It is up to us to keep their legacy alive by making an effort to get to know each and every one who either marched or died on that day. Most of us are aware of leaders such as Robert Sobukwe who were the masterminds behind the marches at the time, yet we have paid scant attention to the ordinary people who made it a success.Human Rights Month is more than just a call for us to remember and honour those who paved the way for our freedom and democracy, and who liberated us. During this time we should also reflect on the progress we have made to inculcate a culture of respect for human rights and dignity where everyone is treated fairly and equally. This is without doubt what those who died on that historic day fought for and would have been pleased to witness had they been with us today.Those who marched in 1960 and those before them discovered their mission and pursued it. It is now our turn to take it forward, this is the least we can do to honour those who fought for what Sobukwe once called the liberation of mankind .Their hopes and dreams must live on in this generation and be a reminder to us that ordinary men and women can bring about change in our country. Our country today, more than ever, needs active men and women to stand up and confront the challenges which threaten to derail our progress. We should do this not only for ourselves but in recognition of those who have marched before us and most importantly for the next generation.Stella Ndabeni-AbrahamsStella Ndabeni-Abrahams is Deputy Minister of Communications.