Business confidence stumbled in February, declining by 2.2 index points from 97.7 in January to 95.5. Substantially lower merchandise import volumes and lower share prices on the JSE were the main culprits. However, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (Sacci’s) monthly business confidence index overall reflected confidence in the business climate and optimism about the economy in future. Merchandise exports are tangible goods sent out of a country while merchandise imports are tangible goods brought in. Imports are critical for many economies. They are the defining financial transactions of international trade and account for a large portion of GDP. According to the February BCI data, although the index failed to keep the January momentum, it has nevertheless improved by 2.8 points on the February 2016 level of 92.7 and it is the third successive month that the BCI improved on the year ago. “Overall, the improvement of the BCI over the past five months points towards the stabilisation of the business climate in South Africa caused by changing local and global economic and political circumstances,” Richard Downing, Sacci economist, said. “Although no ideal growth enhancing Budget 2017, the Minister of Finance succeeded, under difficult circumstances, to remain within the expected framework. “More progress in the management of public finance matters in particularly, should enhance economic prospects and widen the prospects for an improved business mood.” Sacci said the stronger rand exchange rate again made the largest positive year-on-year contribution to the BCI followed by lower inflation and higher gold and platinum prices. Important incidents that occurred during the month of February could have a bearing on the economy over the medium and longer-term. Among the important developments is the announcement of the national minimum wage, Budget 2017, increasing commodity prices including crude oil, a stronger rand exchange rate and the persevering of an internationally acclaimed financial system. “On an annual basis, the local business climate has improved slightly in February in anticipation that the positive developments would eventually outpace negative instances in the economy and business in general. “All indications are that economic growth will pick up,” Downing said. -Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za