IT IS often said that it is not possible to have a sense of tragedy without enjoying a sense of humour. This phrase couldn t be more apt in the case of Stanley Menzo, who seems to have no sense of humour nor of the tragedy of relegation that could befall his floundering Ajax Cape Town team.Menzo has had nothing to laugh about in recent weeks and even Mohammed Anas hilarious post-match blunder barely transformed his stern face. The Free State Stars striker became a global sensation when he thanked his wife and his girlfriend for his man of the match achievement.His embarrassing comment overshadowed the fact that both Stars and Ajax actually dropped crucial points as they played out a 2-2 draw at the weekend. The Urban Warriors are without a victory in six matches since the league resumed in February. Everybody s going on about it (winless run), can t we find something else to talk about? We didn t lose the match, they didn t come it s not so bad a result, Menzo said. Especially with the fact that we played with 10 men for a long time, it s not a bad result. The only pity is that it was a moment to make the gap between Free State Stars and ourselves bigger. But the win will come. For me it s not something I m worried about. The truth, however, is that it hasn t been a particularly good season for Ajax.Following their pre-festive period upturn, the Urban Warriors have regressed to 12th spot with 22 points and are now three points away from the relegation zone. This is not to mention the fact that they also suffered an embarrassing early elimination from the Nedbank Cup at the hands of ABC Motsepe League side KwaDukuza.Gone is the affable Menzo, whose retorts these days speak of a man battling to cope with growing pressure. He has often taken offence to comments about his team s poor run of results, reasoning Ajax are not winning, but are not losing games either.This despite the fact Ajax recorded their second draw against Ea Lla Koto this season and their fifth since Menzo took charge in October. Goals from Mark Mayambela and Rodrick Kabwe put the hosts 2-1 up at the break against Stars, but they soon conceded.More work lies ahead for Menzo in his task of helping the team beat the relegation drop. Ajax will next face Maritzburg United when the PSL resumes on Saturday, April 1.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha