Cosatu yesterday urged President Jacob Zuma to give Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini her marching orders over South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) s social grant payment bungle.Briefing the media at Cosatu s headquarters in Johannesburg, Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said Sassa s ongoing struggle to secure a credible service provider for the payment of grants threatened to put millions of poor families out of pocket.It is for that he said Cosatu demanded Zuma to fire Dlamini. Cosatu is appealing to the President to intervene and heads need to roll at Sassa. The minister and her team in the department need to take political responsibility for this crisis, by resigning or be dismissed. They have failed to deal decisively with the irregular expenditure and irregular tender procedures that have resulted in the threat of the livelihoods of 17 million grant beneficiaries. This is not just an administrative bungling but it is a political own goal that smells of corruption. Ntshalintshali s comments come against the background of Sassa s negotiations with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) to agree to a new contract to provide services for another year.Ntshalintshali, on the matter relating to the Competition Commission s two-year investigation into 17 local and international banks colluding on the rand to dollar exchange rate, charged at national Treasury and the South African Reserve Bank as both complicit in the alleged activities. The Reserve Bank and the Treasury have also through their inaction colluded with these criminal elements. If government does not put deterrence measures in place, this will continue because it is perpetrated by the misdirected naivety and idealism of all those, who hold political power, he said.Ntshalintshali said the penalty given to banks on the matter was a slap on the wrist. The penalty of 10% of annual company turnover is obviously ineffectual because these companies just budget for this money and carry on with their nefarious activities, he said.Ntshalintshali, making references to recently concluded discussions on the national minimum wage, said that Cosatu was on board with the agreement brokered at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac). The NOB s have been given a mandate to go and sign the deal at Nedlac and reiterate our position that the starting figure must be combined with a firmly agreed medium term target to achieve a decent national minimum wage within the stipulated time frame. And also insist that an agreement must be reached where there will be annual increases to progressively achieve this target. The real work is only now beginning at Nedlac with the drafting of the legislation and the resolution of all substantial outstanding issues. On the ANC s proposal of radical economic transformation, Ntshalintshali said that while Cosatu agreed with the ANC on the matter, the concept should go beyond enriching the elite and politically wealthy. Cosatu will remain alert to the tendency from some within the ANC to view economic transformation through the prism of de-racialising capitalism and also for narrowpersonal accumulation. We shall ensure that radical economic transformation does not only mean the integration of blacks into the economic structures of ownership, while leaving these structures unchanged, Ntshalintshali said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za