The ANC Youth League yesterday tried to steal Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s thunder by calling for his head as he appeared before the parliamentary standing committee on public accounts.The young lions fired off a raft of tweets that questioned Gordhan s fitness to hold office. The league charged that Gordhan was an obstacle to the ANC s push for radical economic transformation.It insisted that its patience with the finance minister had reached its lowest ebb. Comrade Pravin Gordhan should be redeployed and the administration and management of the Treasury should be restructured, the league said. We need a finance minister who can drive President Jacob Zuma s radical economic transformation agenda. Hence comrade Gordhan needs to be redeployed, it said.This was a reiteration of an earlier call for Gordhan s head, which the league made last month after a meeting of its national executive committee.The young lions then urged Zuma to redeploy Gordhan and charged that he was against economic transformation due to his cosy relationship with financial firms .The league, through its Twitter account, also called for public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to finalise her report into Absa s lifeboat scandal . We urge the public protector, advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, to finalise the Absa report so that money can be returned to (the) country, it said.Meanwhile, the young lions also congratulated the Competition Commission on its investigation into South African banks implicated in the rand-rigging scandal. The competition commission has done a sterling job, but we need to fine all banks involved in rand pricing collusion to set examples for others, the league said. The government must withdraw all its funds from Absa as announced by a few provinces already to set an example for others. It reiterated its call for the establishment of a state bank. We seek the Treasury to direct the South African Reserve Bank to announce clear timelines for a Post Bank. We need a state bank, it said. Without state banks, future masses will be in the hands of privately owned banks and financial institutions who manipulate the markets, it said. The Post Bank should be converted to operate as a state bank and all accounts of government departments should move there as a critical instrument to drive development and youth entrepreneurship, the league said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za