A slender defeat to the Reds in Queensland at the beginning of the Super Rugby season may have told a misleading story of the season the Sharks would have.After the doubts and criticism linked to the opening defeat, the Sharks have since gathered themselves and registered four straight victories. Their last two wins showed guts and character, withstanding pressure from a spirited Kings side and last week going on to beat the Cheetahs in Free State.With a trip to Emirates Airline Park to take on the Lion on Saturday, skipper Robert du Preez and his side are aware that they will be pushed to the limit by last season s losing finalists The Lions are also enjoying a fine run, boasting the same record as their weekend opponents of four victories and one defeat.Johan Ackermann s side remain unbeaten at home, where they have been in sublime form, scoring more than 50 points against the Waratahs and more than 40 against the Reds and Courtnall Skosan scoring four tries in one match. Despite such a clear danger, Sharks inform flanker Jean-Luc du Plessis, who has played every match so far this campaign, is happy with the momentum his side will take to Johannesburg.The 21 year old said the Sharks will have to draw from the win over Cheetahs, where they were forced to produce a balanced effort that incorporated shrewd attack and stubborn defence. After four out of five wins, I think we re on our way to where we want to be. We re not there yet, there is room for improvement, but we are working towards it. The Lions have dangerous players all around the park. Last weekend we slipped up against the Cheetahs on defence a bit, although I think our attack was quite good. Now we re looking for a complete effort from our boys. Du Plessis also spoke about the shift in mentality his side has had to deal with after giving up an overly defensive system to adopt a more attacking one. While that has been working well, the coastal side has had to deal with injuries to key members and Du Preez believes that is why the Sharks are yet to reach their full potential to make up for the loss. We re happy with the balance between attack and defence. Last year we were a bit more defensively orientated but we ve shifted towards a bit more attack this year so we have a more complete game than before. It has been hard losing senior players like Keegan Daniel, Pat Lambie and Philip van der Walt to injury, but it s up to the individuals who come in to step up. You can t be hesitant, that s when it s all about true professionalism. -Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za