KAIZER Chiefs coach Steve Komphela is going all out in the Nedbank Cup and the Absa Premiership title. He will not, however, prioritise one of these trophies over the other.Chiefs are yet to win anything this season and their only hope lies in the remaining two competitions. After advancing to the last 16 of the Nedbank Cup following their 3-0 victory over National First Division side Stellenbosch FC, Komphela feels his side have a huge advantage in winning the double. There can never be a priority between the Nedbank Cup or the Premiership, Komphela said. The beauty of it is that our schedule is not as tight as that of some of our competitors because they have a lot of African safaris. While for us, we have two targets that we need to focus on in the Nedbank and Premiership. Chiefs are fourth on the Absa Premiership log standings with 35 points from 20 matches, three behind leaders Bidvest Wits. What makes Komphela believe that they can win the double is the fact that he was pleased with the fringe players performance against Stellenbosch FC on Saturday at Athlone Stadium.He made six changes from the team that drew 1-1 against Orlando Pirates as he rested some of his key players. The team that we put up against Stellenbosch and the six changes we made gave an indication of our readiness. You did not feel a lack of rhythm because of the changes even though there were one or two things we could have done better. I strongly believe that with 10 matches remaining in the league, there is still a lot of dust that is going to gather. As far as the Nedbank is a concern, we will have to wait to see what the draw delivers. Joseph Molangoane, Siphiwe Tshabalala, and Gustavo Paez scored the goals to send Chiefs to the next round. Komphela was pleased with the results although he felt that they are going in a right direction. At 3-0, I thought we played well. We got the result but there were also areas where I thought we should be more professional. What we are trying to achieve is that any player at Chiefs at any given time, if called upon, must do the job and that s that. We are delighted with the victory. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza