Renowned music promoter Steve Mashiya has devoted his life to keeping alive the legacy of struggle stalwart, Moses Kotane.Mashiya, affectionately known as Stivovo in music circles, is going all out to take the Moses Kotane Foundation to the nations of the world.Kotane is well known for being the longest serving general secretary of the Communist Party of South Africa, which later became the South African Communist Party.The stalwart was also a prominent figure in the ANC for many years and left South Africa for Tanzania in 1963 where he became the treasurer general for the ANC in exile.Mashiya concurs with the late anti-apartheid activist,Walter Sisulu, who credited Kotane as a giant of the struggle because of his logical and non-dogmatic approach.For that reason, Mashiya, who serves as CEO of the Moses Kotane Foundation, believes the legacy of the stalwart has to be sounded to the nations of the world.The zest to digress a little from his first love, music, was birthed after conducting some research on Kotane. I got inspired to learn about him and the more I learnt about him, the more I felt compelled to take this up at a personal level to make sure his legacy doesn t die, he says.His utmost dream is to see Kotane s stories told at school level. It s time people got to know these giants like Kotane, the same way we have already learnt about stalwarts like Nelson Mandela, Sisulu, Oliver Tambo and others, he says.Mashiya has a lot of admiration for the late struggle hero and considers his assignment a mystical venture .He describes Kotane as someone who was clear about what he wanted and always punctual. He was incorruptible. A pure politician, who commanded lots of respect and loved God so much, he says.Mashiya is also amazed at how revered political leaders like Oliver Tambo, Albert Luthuli and former statesman Nelson Mandela would consult Kotane before making major political decisions. That says a lot about how much respect he commanded and that he was a man of stature, he says.The foundation Mashiya heads was established late in 2011. It aims to contribute to social transformation especially in rural and poor mining communities of the North West and beyond.The focus of the foundation s interventions is on health, poverty alleviation, rural development, skills development and job creation.The very same aspects intrigue the board member and director of the Moshito Music Conference and Exhibition, Mashiya.He, however, admits the journey has been a taxing one with little funding coming in for projects.But the bullish CEO says the cause is far bigger than the storm . It s been challenging financially, politically and in quite a number of areas but once you focus as a person, you know exactly the foundation you re building, he says.Mashiya draws courage from some positive developments that include an imminent agreement with the North West government that will see the two parties partner on programmes around renewal, healing and reconciliation of the province. We are also in talks with the Moses Kotane municipality and the national Department of Arts and Culture for funding for some projects. The provincial arts and culture department has said it will participate in the arts centre project as well as the memorial lectures. I m happy even though we have not yet signed, an elated Mashiya says.He is buoyant that the foundation will have a national footprint in the not so distant future, with programmes and projects all over the Southern African Development Community. We re looking to forge partnerships with countries like Tanzania, Zambia, Botswana and Mozambique. Some of these countries are nations where he spent some time and the idea is to have exchange programmes with them, he says.The foundation also plans to register a family trust so that Kotane s family can benefit from the activities of the foundation.The strident entrepreneur runs his own businesses on the side and vows he wants to make a success of everything.In seeming obedience to the scriptures, he says whatever my hands find to do, I will do it with all my might .The founder of Shiyanilento Promotions has been in music for about 25 years.But he has since ventured into manufacturing after acquiring technology from Germany to produce bricks. The technology will allow us to manufacture 10000 bricks an hour and we re going into full production by mid-2018, he says.The bricks catalogue will have around 40 types of bricks as well as paving blocks, concrete solution, crusher stones, crusher sand and building sand. I looked into an area where most black people don t participate largely and I realised there s an industry that hasn t transformed very well especially at a commercial level. I want to inspire change, he says.He believes the industrial space is one sector that is still begging for transformation.Mashiya has called on the government to support such initiatives to accelerate transformation in the industry. There is a great need for funding to finalise some of these projects. We need to be proactive about this as the government has pledged its support to black industrialists. Interestingly, his other area of interest, music promotion, still finds itself in the same predicament.He is a national member of the Department of Trade and Industry initiative called Events, Technical and Production Transformation Forum. The technical stuff is still owned by whites, the skills are still with the whites, he says.The brick manufacturing project will create around 400 jobs full-time and 2000 indirectly.As if that is not enough, the go-getter CEO wants to go the extra mile to set up a building academy to bridge the skills gap in the construction industry. We want to set up a building academy, which will also cover the engineering side, production side and technical support. We don t have bricklayers in the country, and we rely on foreign nationals for bricklaying. The company is also exploring issues of renewable energies to electrify the plant. We re looking at industrial solar systems, conventional electricity from Eskom and other renewable energies that we are exploring around that space, the shrewd entrepreneur says.Undoubtedly, Mashiya desires to inspire and make a difference in the lives of people and in communities.The softly-spoken entrepreneur says one thing he has to refine all the time is striking a balance in everything he does.But the devout Christian says meditation and prayer always brings sanity and gives him direction. I m a prayerful man. Prayer is the cornerstone of my life, without Jesus I wouldn t be where I am. He s the one who gives me strength, courage and wisdom, he says.He is a stern believer in the importance of equipping oneself with knowledge. You can t give people what you don t have. You can t inspire passion if you re not passionate. I wake up every day thinking how I can inspire and bring change, he says.He considers it a joy when, at the end of the month, his subordinates and employees receive their salaries to fend for their families.The middle-aged Mashiya has tried his hand in marketing and the taxi industry before, but still singles out music as his first love. I d love to see music create more jobs because it is a difficult space that depends on funding. The private sector has not necessarily come to the party and finance that type of business, he says.Although Mashiya has seen it all in music and other ventures, he says his role at the foundation remains the most interesting task he has ever had to do. It s all about ensuring somebody else s legacy remains alive, it is spiritual. Going into communities doing research and you see the excitement people have when you tell them about what we re doing. It s been a fulfilling experience, he says.Growing up in Kanana, he says he always knew he was destined to be a businessman.He is convinced taking seriously the opportunities that come his way has made a difference in his life. I believe it s also important to respect yourself, be honest and grab every opportunity that comes your way with seriousness, he says.Mashiya is a jazz lover and says the genre calms him.The father of four says the most memorable moments of his life were when each of his kids were born. I have three beautiful daughters and a handsome young boy. The little time I spend with them is never enough, it s always about catching up because I don t stay with them, he says.He has no regrets about life and believes everything he has ever gone through was for a purpose.One of those moments was when a municipality in the North West owed him R8m for a project in 2005 and would not pay. I had to learn a few things through my bad experiences and I have no regrets about the past, Mashiya says.And, for now, his focus remains reviving Kotane s legacy and to impact people s lives at a personal level.-MTHOKOZISI DUBE