The ANC s proposal for an electoral college to vet aspirant party leaders would barely scratch the surface in plucking rotten-apple leaders out of the ruling party, Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said yesterday.Dlamini told The New Age that Cosatu welcomed attempts made by the ANC in its policy discussion document on organisational renewal to screen candidates punted for leadership positions.He said, however, that it was worth careful consideration for the ANC to put in place new checks and balances on leaders once they have ascended to power . Sometimes your conscience runs away when you are in power because your material conditions have changed. What is the ANC going to do about that because everybody is good before they come to power but once they are in the position things come up, Dlamini said.He said that if the ANC had been following the principles espoused in the party s. Through the Eye of the Needle document, then the governing party would not have to establish an internal electoral commission. The ANC has the eye of the needle document and it has been used traditionally until recently. If the ANC had been following that, it wouldn t be talking about an electoral college. Let the ANC implement that system but it must not undermine the already existing strategy, Dlamini said.Dlamini s comments come on the back of the ANC s unveiling of its policy discussion documents ahead of the ruling party s policy conference in June.The ANC s discussion document on organisational renewal acknowledged that issues of corruption and gatekeeping among others threatened to relegate the party to the dustbin of history.This was echoed by ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte who told The New Age at the weekend that its was high time for the ANC to crack the whip on corruption and factionalism in the party.Dlamini cautioned that the ANC should not be remiss in regaining the trust of the electorate, lest its bruising local government election results are replicated on a national scale in the 2019 general elections. The ANC must do everything to avoid that. It must rid itself of factionalism, disunity and mistrust, where we are talking badly about ourselves in public. The result is that people become disillusioned and lose hope in the ANC. What have opposition parties put on the table in terms of an alternative? The EFF claim to be of the left but they walk right and the DA is a right wing organisation. Society has pinned all their hopes on the ANC, the ANC has to correct itself. Dlamini, making reference to the ANC s proposal on radical economic transformation on the land question said the ANC could have done more to accelerate the deliverables of the party s land reform and redistribution policies. It s good that the ANC has agreed that it could have done things differently. While we welcome it, it is something that we (Cosatu) have been telling the ANC for a long time, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za