Let s talk about radical economic transformation. But first let us remember that there is a direct line between Jan van Riebeek s first footprints on the sandy beach in Cape Town where he and his fellow Dutchmen landed in 1652 and today s heated debates on the economy.From that moment on the place which today we call South Africa was set on a path where economic gain through the violent domination of the local population became the norm.As the number of colonists grew a hunger for land was satiated through colonial wars waged against the people that culminated in the establishment of impoverished native reserves and the infamous Natives Land Act of 1913 that put the final seal on domination over that basic resource.The discovery of diamonds and then gold led to the iniquitous establishment of the migrant labour system and the institutionalised racism of apartheid that turned the country into an oppressive slave camp where black people were regulated into a cheap labour reservoir or dumped and left to rot in so-called homelands. Of course during this whole process, many white people accumulated vast wealth while the rest lived comfortably administering the oppressive state as jailers in charge of the slave labouring black people.Fortunately resistance to this colonial domination which started also around the time of Van Riebeeck s first footprints and lasted through the frontier wars and all subsequent history was fierce and the flame of liberation finally bore fruit in the negotiated settlement of the early 1990s when apartheid was dismantled.Thus the dominated, oppressed and dispossessed gained what Ghana s Kwame Nkrumah called the political kingdom from which it was hoped that all other power would flow.Fast forward from 1994 to 2017 and we have the yearly major policy speech of the liberation movement turned governing party advocating radical economic transformation. This is followed by a budget where the phrase radical economic transformation is mentioned as much as 18 times. However the repetition of this phrase in the context of the budget is used rather as a stick to beat advocates of transformation rather than an attempt to put it into practice. So where did the wheels come off between achieving the political kingdom in 1994 and chasing the illusion of economic transformation in 2017?Freedom fighter and former minister, Ronnie Kasrils had this to say about our economic situation: South Africa s liberation struggle reached a high point but not its zenith when we overcame apartheid rule. Back then, our hopes were high for our country given its modern industrial economy, strategic mineral resources (not only gold and diamonds) and a working class and organised trade union movement with a rich tradition of struggle.But that optimism overlooked the tenacity of the international capitalist system. From 1991 to 1996 the battle for the ANC s soul got under way, and was eventually lost to corporate power, we were entrapped by the neoliberal economy or, as some today cry out, we sold our people down the river. With this in mind we need to really examine the possibility of going beyond rhetoric about economic transformation. It is safe to say that tinkering with the economy at its edges, making a few black people rich, paying lip service to supporting small business and continually held to ransom by the rich and powerful in the banking and financial sector is not going to work. If we stick to that the status quo will remain the same.We also have to learn from past mistakes. During apartheid the National Party gave its buddies a cash cow called DStv which is basically a licence to print money while the SABC languishes in permanent debt. After 1994 we gave the cash cow of mobile telephony away to private companies instead of harnessing it to a more public company that can benefit the whole of our society surely that opportunity could have been used to turn Telkom into something special? There are endless other examples of how we have missed opportunities to fund radical economic transformation.One of the only really clever and radical things we have done is to establish a system of grants for poor people, which is a total game changer in terms of the lives of our people. But what do we do? Instead of using all the opportunities that the management of that massive amount of money represents to radical economic transformation we allow a private company to reap all the benefits.We need to somehow clear away the cobwebs that line the corridors of more than two decades of lost opportunities. We need to tame the short-termist opportunists that greedily dominate our economic life and get to grips with what radical transformation of the economy means.We need to do this as a matter of urgency if we are going to progress as a society and not devolve into the kind of oppressive state we fought so hard to escape from. If we don t we will end up kowtowing to the rich and living off their crumbs while keeping the poor at bay.Kevin HumphreyKevin Humphrey is acting deputy editor of The New Age