A flood of good news yesterday has raised hopes that 2017 could be a turning point for the economy.Consumer inflation has slowed again to 6.3% year-on-year in February, from 6.6% in January lifting hopes that the Reserve Bank may cut interest rates towards the end of the year if inflation did quickly into the Bank s 3%-6% target range. Stats SA said yesterday that core inflation, which excludes the prices of food, non-alcoholic beverages, petrol, also inched lower to 5.2% year-on-year from 5.5% year-on-year.In more good news, SA s current account deficit narrowed more than expected in the fourth quarter of last year to 1.7% of GDP, its lowest in six years, suggesting that the economy may be in better shape than thought, the Reserve Bank s leading indicator showed yesterday. Overall, the indicator also rose substantially for the sixth consecutive month in January to 97.1, from 96.2.This was the best reading in more than two years. The numbers suggest that the predictions of the World Bank, the Reserve Bank and the national Treasury that the domestic economy would grow at 1.3% this year, from 0.3% for the whole of last year, could come true. The positive data bolstered the rand 0.5% to trade at R12.61/$ yesterday, after opening weaker at R12.71/$.The current account is an important indicator of an economy s health. The dip to 1.7% of GDP was better than market expectations of 2.3%. Azar Jammine, chief economist at Econometrix, said: This points to an economy firmly in recovery mode and growth of 1.5%-2% this year and next is achievable. Improved global conditions as well as an increase in domestic business confidence were important factors driving the continuing upswing in the leading indicator. Jammine believes there could be a blip on this improvement in the wake of substantial personal tax increases which are bound to counterbalance many of the positive signs for the economy. Stanlib chief economist Kevin Lings said the better than expected current account deficit reflected strong growth in commodity exports, combined with a decline in imports. There was also a noticeable improvement in dividend inflows, while the travel account benefited from a further increase in foreign tourism. Looking forward, SA s exports are expected to gain some traction, despite the relative strength of the rand, and this is largely due to a commodity price effect rather than a fundamental improvement in SA s competitiveness, he said.On the agricultural side, the Crop Estimates Committee says the amount of maize cultivated over the past year is larger than the predicted forecast. At 13.9 million tons nearly 80% more than last year the crop is about 2 million tons in surplus, which will send prices lower not only for humans but for the many farm animals that eat grain.The petrol price which is also one of the key factors in the CPI basket is expected to drop next month and this will also bring some relief despite new taxes of the fuel levy which kicks in on April 1.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za