A 63-YEAR-OLD man from Ganyesa, near Vryburg, was sentenced to life imprisonment for the brutal murder of his girlfriend.Ohentse Kentsemotse was sentenced in the North West High Court sitting in Vryburg. Kentsemotse stabbed Golebamang Patricia Oepeng 23 times following an argument at the deceased s residence on February 3, 2015.National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Frank Lesenyego said on the fateful day, the deceased was at home with some of her villagers in Phaposane near Ganyesa. Kentsemotse is reported to have entered the residential premises of the deceased. Apparently, one gentleman who was seated outside informed the accused that the deceased was inside the house. After the accused entered the room where the deceased was, an argument ensued. It appeared that the accused had locked himself and the deceased inside the room. After some time, there was silence in the house and the accused then emerged with a bloody knife in his hand, he said.Police were called to the scene, they found the accused with the blood-stained knife still in his possession. The deceased was certified dead at the scene having sustained 23 stab wounds all over her body. The accused was convicted of murder after he initially pleaded guilty, but, his plea of guilty was altered into not guilty by the court after he disputed having any intention to kill the deceased. The state led evidence in court said that offence was premeditated or planned because the accused had a knife in his possession when he went to the place of the deceased. The state further stated that upon his arrival at the deceased place, he realised that the deceased was not alone in the premises and to avoid being stopped or disturbed he locked himself and the deceased in a room to execute his plan, Lesenyego said.Arguing in aggravation of sentence, state prosecutor advocate Pitso Sebothe said at the time of the incident the accused and deceased were no longer staying together and the deceased was attacked while at her place where she was supposed to be safe.He further said that prior to the incident the deceased was subjected to some form of abuse, hence the deceased s efforts to obtain a domestic violence interdict against the accused on the day before the murder.The accused and deceased had two minor children, who since the incident were in the custody of the social development department. The accused has shown absolutely no remorse and he committed what can be described as cruel and barbaric, Sebothe said.Handing down the sentence, judge Samkelo Gura said the attack on the deceased was merciless and must have shocked the deceased s relatives and members of the community where she resided. The offence of murder is prevalent, especially where you find a man killing a woman simply because he is jealous that the woman ends their relationship.The accused was married and should have been loyal to his wife, Gura said.ELFAS TORERAI