DESPITE Jomo Cosmos suffering a setback in their promotion campaign at the weekend, captain Frederick Nsabiyumva is confident they will get the team back to the Premiership. Cosmos were defeated 1-0 by fellow promotion hopefuls Stellenbosch FC at Tsakane Stadium on Sunday.While Stellenbosch climbed to position three on the table, a playoffs spot, Ezenkosi dropped to sixth place from fifth. With nine matches before the National First Division s curtains close, Cosmos have 30 points and are four points away from the playoffs spot. Nsabiyumva knows the defeat hurts their aim of taking Cosmos back to the PSL, after being relegated last season.But he believes the remaining nine games are enough to at least achieve a top three finish and make the PSL promotion/relegation playoffs. If you look at the log you can see that promotion is still possible because the gap between us and the third team is just four points, Nsabiyumva said. Another good thing is that most of the teams that are above us are still to face us. If we can win those games against them we will close the gap and qualify for the playoffs. Thanda Royal Zulu are the favourites to clinch automatic promotion and the title as they enjoy an eight-point gap between them and nearest rivals Black Leopards.Nsabiyumva said it would be good to achieve automatic promotion but Ezenkosi s main focus was now on the playoffs. First, we are looking to be in the top three and if it possible that we can be number one we are going to fight for it, he said. Nsabiyumva joined Ezenkosi in 2014 after catching the eye of Jomo Sono while playing for Burundi in the African Nations Championships in Polokwane. It had always been my dream to play in South Africa because of the opportunities that are here for footballers. My aim is not to stay here forever but to secure a move to play abroad. Cosmos will look to return to the winning ways when they visit relegation-threatened Cape Town All Stars at Parow Park on Friday at 4pm.sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi