Traditional healers are being caught in the crossfire of the war against rhino poaching.According to the SADC Unified Ancestors, Traditional Healers and Practitioners of South Africa, some traditional leaders were being killed if the poachers who sought muti for protection failed in their poaching activities.The organisation has urged traditional healers to stop assisting poachers with muti.Its president, Dr Sylvester Hlati, said a traditional healers awareness campaign to fight rhino poaching was initiated in 2012 after they noticed a number of poachers were found with muti in their possession. Muti can do good things and bad things. We need to regulate this so we know who s doing what, he said.Some traditional healers make a small cloth with muti on it for the poachers to put around their waist or neck, something to bath with or to inject in their body. They say this makes an animal think the person is also an animal. It s unfortunate that some of our practitioners are assisting poachers. They have muti that will prevent rhinos and lions from being violent towards them, he said.But when the muti does not work then the traditional healer involved could land in hot water.Hlati said seven poachers so far had been arrested through the campaign but the lack of financial support made it difficult for them to reach more villages.He said the SADC traditional healer organisation needed the private sector to assist them with travelling to more communities around Africa to educate the healers on the dangers of assisting poachers and on the impact it had on the environment and the country.He said the awareness campaign was successful in educating the traditional healers in understanding why they should not work with poachers.During the campaign healers were told to agree to a consultation with someone who notifies them that they need muti for poaching and then to call the police when the person arrives. Many said they were successful and didn t need money. The reason they do it is because they don t have knowledge but after some time they understood the damage they were doing. If you use muti the wrong way, you kill animals and people, Hlati said.He denied that traditional healers were working with poachers for ingredients for muti. Traditional healers don t need big portions of animal fat or bones. We have an agreement with the Kruger National Park to give us what we require from animals that have died naturally, he said.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za