Kaizer Chiefs striker Gustavo Paez feels he has finally settled down in the PSL and is starting to understand South Africa s football culture.The 26-year-old Venezuela international joined Chiefs in the January transfer window period but has only managed to find the back of the net once , in the Nedbank Cup last 32 against Stellenbosch FC. He said he has been impressed by the standard of play in the league and that with more time, South African fans will witness the best out of him. The standard of living and quality of life is much better here than at home. It is tough in Venezuela right now with the unstable political situation being a threat to the safety of its citizens, Paez said. On the football front, people there know about Kaizer Chiefs, Pirates and Sundowns. For me, the game is advanced in South Africa.The standard is high and the league is hard. There are no easy games. Paez is aware that he will need to deliver at Chiefs by starting to score goals. Chiefs strikers are not scoring enough goals and only have four players, defender Lorenzo Gordinho, midfielder Siphiwe Tshabalala, forward Bernard Parker and midfielder Willard Katsande, having scored four goals for the club.Paez must use this opportunity if he wants to cement his place in the starting 11 by scoring goals for the club if he gets a chance to perform. I was telling my agent and my father that the PSL is technicaly based, there s a lot of running and the teams pass the ball more than other leagues I have played in. You have to be fit to make it here, Paez said. The game against Stellenbosch has been my best game to date at Chiefs because I started the match and that suits me the best because when one starts it s easier to read the whole game. To score my first goal and get an assist was special and I m glad I could contribute to the team advancing to the next round of the competition. Paez and company will need to be at their best when they face Sundowns in a league match on Saturday at FNB Stadium.-Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za