Expensive brand name medication is costing the South African economy around R4bn a year, as many healthcare practitioners continue to prescribe them despite cheaper, generic alternatives being available.Based on the latest Mediscor data, about one in five prescriptions for medical aid patients in the past year were for branded medication while generic equivalents were available. Erik Roos, CEO of Pharma Dynamics one of the leading generic medicine providers in the country estimates that for patients with hypertension, high blood pressure, substituting brandname prescription medication for generics, would alone save millions. Generic hypertension medication is on average 44% cheaper than brand name medication, while a further 79% can be shaven off the price of brand name antidepressants if a generic alternative is used. Failing to substitute with a generic means that many patients are paying over R350 for a product that could be costing them in the region of R75. Roos says pharmacists are obliged by law to offer patients a generic alternative if the prescribed medication is substitutable.Generic medicines now account for roughly 56% of medicines dispensed in the private sector, yet they only amount to 40% of the more than R22bn South Africans spent on medicines last year. Elsewhere in the world, generic usage stands at 80%. The majority of peerreviewed studies found that generic equivalents produced similar clinical outcomes when compared to their brand-name counterparts but, despite this, some patients still express concern that generic medications are less effective. The reason generic manufacturers can sell medication at a lower cost is not because it is of inferior quality but because of the increased competition among generic manufacturers, who don t have to go through the expensive research and development phase that brand companies have already gone through, Roos says.He says doctors play a critical role. By prescribing more generic medicines, healthcare practitioners could see medicine expenditure drop significantly, while providing patients with effective and affordable medication. It is estimated that every 1% increase in generic usage equates to a saving of R270m. Another stumbling block could be patients that perceive lower-cost generics as inferior and may as a result insist on having doctors prescribe the more expensive brand-name product, therefore more awareness also needs to be created among consumers. In other cases, doctors may still be referring to medication by their original name, long after generic versions have become available, which could result in them inadvertently prescribing more expensive medications, Roos says.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za