A child goes missing every five hours in South Africa. Fortunately, for four of the five families of teenage girls who went missing in Kuils River, the girls were found unharmed this week.Missing Children South Africa says 77% of missing children are found annually.This still leaves the country with at least 23% of children not being located. This is according to figures released by the South African Police Service s Missing Persons Bureau.Two of the teenage girls, Nayoca Plato, 17, and Robin van Leeve, 19, were traced to Roodepoort in Johannesburg.Chandre Snyman was found in Paarl and another girl, Chumisa Fatyela, 15, returned home last year.Unfortunately, 17-year-old Micaela du Preez, who went missing on March 2 while on her way to school in Bellville, is still missing.SAPS spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed that Fatyela, who went missing from her home in Kuils River on August 28 last year, returned home of her own accord within days. Chumisa returned home unharmed on August 31, 2016. Chandre Snyman was found in Paarl and was reunited with her family, Rwexana said.Meanwhile, Nayoca s mother was ecstatic to hear her daughter was found. She was located in Roodepoort with her best friend, Robin. The girls were last seen on March 1 at 7.15am near a McDonald s on the corner of Kerk Street and Van Riebeeck Street in Kuils River. The details of their discovery have not been revealed, Rwexana said.Robin and Nayoca s parents flew to Johannesburg to be reunited with their daughters.Nayoca s mother, Karin, said: We are so happy they found the girls. I cannot describe how happy I am that she has been found. The girls were found in Roodepoort. I cannot wait to have her in my arms. We do not have all the details yet but we are all happy to know that the police were working around the clock in order to find them. Rwexana said police did not expect that the girls had been targeted by a kidnapping syndicate. Our investigation into the missing girls did not uncover any human trafficking as the reason for their disappearance, Rwexana said.TATENDA CHIRISERItatendac@thenewage.co.za