The ANC has acknowledged that land reform policy has been a thorn in the side of the ruling party since its ascension to office in 1994.Speaking at the launch of the ANC s policy discussion documents at its Luthuli House headquarters in Johannesburg yesterday, ANC economic transformation cluster head Enoch Godongwana took stock of the fact that the ANC could have done more to translate its land reform and redistribution policies into tangible action.He said while the ANC s Ready to Govern discussion document demanded that land reform and redistribution be fasttracked, the matter did not receive enough legislative support. Some of the areas we have not been able to achieve on time, 20 years since the signing of the Constitution. We did not have an expropriation act that is in line with the Constitution, Godongwana said.Godongwana s comments come against the background of the ANC s policy discussion document on radical economic transformation, stating that it should revisit the Constitution and what is said about land reform and redistribution.The party said it should provide greater certainty by codifying the Constitutional requirement of just and equitable compensation for the acquisition of land .Godongwana, making reference to the party s Ready to Govern discussion document on land reform, outlined various instruments that were useful in accelerating land redistribution. The first instrument is the legislative framework.The second instrument are tax proposals. If you have to force someone sitting on that land, you ve got to use tax measures to force them to sell. We ve got to take measures so people should not be speculating with land and unutilised land must be made available to the state but within a legislative framework that is supportive. Godongwana, making reference to access to funding for black entrepreneurs, said the matter needed to be confronted head on . Across the board, whether it s for small and medium sized enterprises, the issue of access to finance is critical. If we are going to make this radical transformation and transfer assets to black people, they must be funded. Unfortunately black people have been deprived of assets so they ve got nothing to utilise. So somebody has to step up to the plate, who that is, I don t know. It s a matter for discussion. ANC policy head Jeff Radebe said that the ANC s proposal on radical economic transformation was not a new phrase. He said that the proposal s tenets could be found in the party s 1955 Freedom Charter document. This is not a creation of 2017 but this entered our lexicon in 2012 at our Mangaung conference. Even that does not complete the picture, way back in 1955, that s where the real radical socioeconomic transformation started with the adoption of the Freedom Charter, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za