If anyone was wondering why Luther Singh is touted as the next South African football star, without a doubt their curiosity has been put to rest after his most recent performance.Singh, who was virtually unknown in the local football scene, endeared himself in the hearts of many South Africans after he scored a hat-trick in Amajita s 3-1 victory over Cameroon in their opening U-20 Africa Cup of Nations match in Zambia on Monday. The 19-year-old Singh is playing his football in Portugal for Sporting Braga s B side, having joined in January following his move from Sweden where he had been playing since 2015.Unlike other footballers who used the PSL as a stepping stone to secure a move abroad, the Soweto-born forward did not cut his teeth locally. He signed for GAIS Goteborg of Sweden from Farouk Khan s renowned Stars of Africa Academy, which has helped to shape the careers of players such as Tokelo Ran- tie and May Mahlangu. Singh caught the eye of Amajita coach Thabo Senong while playing in Sweden and he summarily selected him for last year s Cosafa Championships.In the tournament, Singh proved to be what the country has been missing for many years, a natural goal poacher. South Africa is yet to unearth a young prolific striker since the emergence of Benni McCarthy, who is still Bafana Bafana s all-time leading goal scorer with 32 goals. At the U-20 Cosafa finals, Singh finished as the top scorer with his six goals en route to the final. Khan, who discovered the youngster, believes people have only seen a glimpse of what Singh is capable of. That boy is very talented, we knew when we first saw him at the age of 11 that he was going to be a great player and I can say he is still going to go far with his career, Khan said. We decided to bring the boy to the academy so he could get the best guidance because talent alone is nothing without proper nurturing. He was together with the likes of Rantie, Tefu Mashamaite and Sibusiso Khumalo but he couldn t train with them because he was still too young. We let him watch during training. Khan encouraged Singh to work towards securing a move to Spain, England or Germany in the next few years. I spoke to him yesterday and told him that he is still only 19 so the sky is the limit. He must not let the newly found fame get to him, he needs to avoid getting lost in the hype of that hat-trick and continue to work hard. Singh credited team work for his superior performance in Zambia. Had it not been for the team effort I would not have scored the goals I did. We were also encouraged by our solid defence, which made things easy for us, Singh said. Although we conceded early, we managed to regroup quickly and stayed focused until the end to get the crucial win. -Sithembiso Dindi|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za