Eldorado park residents have lived with a nasty stench emanating from the Klip River for over 10 years.They are now hoping it will soon be a thing of the past following promises by the local council to chemically treat the river.This week local ward councillor Peter Rafferty told The New Age the Klip River was being treated with the necessary chemicals to get rid of the water pollution, stench and toxins that have been a bugbear to the community for a long time.The residents, particularly communities living in informal settlements in the area, have been directly affected as they have been using the toxic water for domestic use. The stench will soon be a thing of the past. We are mindful that members of our communities, especially those living in informal settlements, have been using toxic water for domestic use. Now this will be a thing of the past as the council embarks on a programme to detoxify the water, Rafferty said.For years, residents who live close to the river have used the polluted water. Some residents use bleach and boiled the water to purify it. There has always been a high chance that residents who live in shacks may not possess the means and facilities to purify their drinking water, Rafferty said.Residents living in shacks said they were dependent on the toxic water they drew from the river because it was free and convenient. The greatest concern has been that children used the contaminated water and risk the possibility of contracting water-borne diseases, a resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said.A resident, Rifqah Cloete, said she was frustrated with the smell that is pervasive in the area. We have had to make do for years with the disgusting odour coming from the river. I wake up and go to bed with the same foul smell every day and it is not a good feeling, Cloete said.Other residents said they were grateful that something is being done to help get rid of the smell and clean up the river.The Gauteng department of water affairs said human or animal sewage contributed to air pollution. Residents need to take responsibility for cleaning up the area to minimise dumping, a factor that fuels and contributes to air pollution, the department said.Departmental spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said a clean-up operation should still be put in place to help speed up the process of cleaning up the river. This will require community engagement to ensure the success of the operation. The clean-up operation is due to take place this month, Ratau said.provinces@thenewage.co.za