The honeymoon enjoyed by banks in the past, with recordings of double-digit profits, appear to have hit rock bottom as consumers are now in serious trouble , owing more than the total growth of the five major banks combined.Profits were also hit by weak domestic economic growth of less than 1% in the past couple of years. Although a survey published by EY in 2015 on a broad range of metrics, which showed that South Africa s banks have made R75bn in profits (up 16.4%), with a total revenue stood at R244bn, up at least 8.7% combined, it is evident the sector is facing huge challenges which in turn impacts on revenue profits.The main driving factor could be associated with spiralling consumers debts, high rate of unemployment and poor GDP growth. These are key factors that can make or break a banking industry. South African households owe more than R1.63 trillion, and it s difficult to apply for more credit given the tight criteria introduced in the last two years.The latest Barclays Africa results are another case in point, where the bank reported a number on rising mortgages arrears, suggesting difficulties for households to service their loan repayments. This week Nedbank also announced in its financial year results that it had booked R3.8bn on the value of its west African associate Ecobank and reported its slowest growth in annual profit since 2009.Ecobank s operations in central and West Africa have been exposed to economies pressured by the sharp slide in commodity prices and unfavourable currency swings, and that impacted heavily on the bank s revenue growth. South Africa s Standard Bank also took a dive in its full-year profit released yesterday by posting a 4% rise in profit, as the threat of a sovereign ratings downgrade weighed on its home market. In South Africa, the threat of a sovereign downgrade by rating agencies to sub-investment grade persisted throughout the year. This in turn negatively impacted the already weak business and consumer confidence and further delayed much needed domestic investment and job creation opportunities, Standard Bank said in a statement.A number of industry players are convinced that conditions in the key markets in which they operate are expected to remain difficult this year, before improving next year and beyond. Ian Cruikshank, chief economist at IRR, said banks are facing a tough time as deterioration in domestic environment continues to bite consumers and making their financial affordability a nightmare in turn that results into a negative impact for banks in terms of good profits.Cruikshank said more people were losing their jobs and, as a result, profits improvements can t reach a point where it will satisfy shareholders. Going ahead, banks are going to put further tight conditions to grant new loans and that will mean slow business for good returns, he said. EY 2016 research on the banking industry also revealed that total combined credit impairments of the major banks show increases over a rolling year-on-year period.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za