THE availability of Kamohelo Mokotjo for Bafana Bafana hangs very much in the balance. Despite being included in the latest national team for the upcoming friendly matches against Guinea Bissau and Angola, it s still anyone s guess whether or not Mokotjo will honour his call-up.Yet it is hoped talks with the Netherlands-based midfielder, to be initiated by the Safa management, may force Mokotjo to reconsider his decision. Mokotjo took up Dutch citizenship in December, but he may not be eligible to play for Netherlands as he has already been capped by South Africa at senior level. I am looking into that, the guys assured me he can still play, even though he took another nationality, but I am trying to get hold of team management, Safa CEO Dennis Mumble said. I expected the coach and management would have spoken to him before calling him up. We never retired him, that is the key thing. We are not done with players unless there are disciplinary issues. It is the coach s prerogative (to select players) and the fact is that he (Shakes Mashaba) did call him but decided when he was going to play and when he was not and it turned out the way it did. We have a different coach in place now, so that coach has the prerogative to choose the players he wants, there are no enemies of the association. It was Mokotjo s fallout with former coach Mashaba that nudged the FC Twente midfielder star into self-imposed exile. Frustrated at always reporting for duty but rarely playing, Mokotjo publicly vented his frustration and later announced his retirement, at least until the circumstances change .Well, circumstances have changed with the departure of Mashaba and it was hardly surprising to see stand-in coach Owen Da Gama recall the midfielder last week. Da Gama also admitted he had been bothered by Mokotjo s decision to quit Bafana I really felt very hurt and I was a player as well.It s not a nice thing when a player resigns from the national team. We must try and prevent this as much as possible and have good dialogue with these players, Da Gama said. Like Mokotjo, Kermit Erasmus also fell out with Mashaba and was overlooked for selection. But he will have to prove he still has what it takes to play for Bafana, given his average form at French side Lens.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusah