The Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe has on Thursday announced that National Human Right day will be celebrated in Ginsberg King Williams town Eastern Cape. The minister reported that President Jacob Zuma will officially handover the memorial grave site of Steve Bantu Biko to the Biko-family. Radebe says this is part of celebrating and promoting unity in line with the vision of OR Tambo. Human Rights Month will be celebrated across the country leading to the national celebrations on Human Rights Day on 21 March 2017 in Ginsberg, he said. Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle said the news of holding the celebrations are positive experience for the Province. We welcome the announcement by the National Government to hold the National Human Rights Day celebrations in King William&#8217;s town, our province has a long and illustrious history of struggle for liberation, freedom and human rights in South Africa, said Masaulle. This year&#8217;s theme is The Year of OR Tambo: Unity in Action in Advancing Human Rights to raise awareness and promote respect for basic human rights. Steve Biko passed away 40 years ago but remains a towering giant for Human Rights and liberty all over the world, his ideals remain a beacon of hope for all of us who remain engaged in the fight to reduce poverty, unemployment and bring an end to inequality for a more just and equitable society, said the Premier. Biko died in police custody in 1977 after he was brutally assaulted by Apartheid Police. Masaulle added that both Oliver Tambo and Steve Biko were beloved leaders of the revolutionary movement in the African National Congress. They remain the embodiment of the values which we have come to embrace and which are so clearly articulated in our Constitution, which is anchored on the protection and respect for Human Rights. The marking of the National Human Rights Day in the Eastern Cape is a fitting tribute to him too, as he we also celebrate what would have been his 100th birthday this year, he said. TNA Reporter 