Ghana turned 60 years old this week. The West African country gained independence from Britain on March 6, 1957 and remains a study in contradictions.At 60, Ghana is viewed by many as a beacon of democracy and stability. But its growth rate is just 3.6%, the lowest in 20 years. Its tax revenue to GDP ratio is 18% , which is one of the lowest among middle income economies.At 60, it has a debt to GDP ratio of more than 73%, one of the highest in the sub-region. The country is bedevilled with an erratic power supply, which has caused many businesses to collapse and its informal sector is still not sufficiently formalised to widen the tax net.At 60, Ghana still has schoolchildren who study under trees.Some of these economic indicators have sparked a national debate about whether it was prudent for the country to set aside $4.3m (R56m) to celebrate the anniversary.Many are of the view that such an amount could be better spent on projects that would bring some economic dividend than, as they describe it, to waste it on pomp and pageantry, parade and fanfare.These criticisms may have informed President Nana Akufo-Addo when he announced that the budget for the commemoration would not be borne by the taxpayer but by corporate Ghana. The chairperson of the 30-member committee planning the anniversary was quick to add that committee members would be doing their work on a voluntary basis.But there are some who take all this with a pinch of salt, perhaps taking a cue from what many perceive to be misappropriation of funds and plain corruption during the organisation of the event 10 years ago (the Ghana at 50 commemoration committee spent more than $60m).The head of the Centre for Economic Governance and Political Affairs at the policy think tank, Imani-Ghana, wants the government to make public the names of all companies that committed and how much they committed, to ensure accountability and transparency. Patrick Stephenson believes this is the only way we can ensure that a corporate body is not getting some undue advantage in the award of contracts just because of their affiliation to this event .The independence event is always commemorated with marching parades performed by security personnel, workers unions, traders and schoolchildren among others. The event, which typically starts with the lighting of a flame, also sees the president inspecting a guard mounted in his honour.Stephenson wants organisers to think outside the box and use innovative means to project and develop certain aspects of the country s economy and culture. For instance, cocoa, one of our biggest cash crops, could be the year-long theme of one of the commemorations in which we will look at the history, the challenges, the current situation and set targets to be achieved as to how to improve on its production, he said.It is a view shared by communications academic Dr Ete Skanku. He writes: The parades are exciting but you don t need to stand and take a salute. Spare the kids the unnecessary dehydration. Engage them in another way. They can be out there promoting a major national initiative practically or give a meaning/breathing life to a national project. The day is observed as a national holiday but most people within the informal sector, especially traders, couldn t afford to stay at home.At the central business district in the capital, Accra traders were going about their business. But the traders believe that the day is worth celebrating as the recent budget statement given by the finance minister seems to give some hope.The government has already abolished nine taxes, including a duty on importation of spare parts and the excise duty on petroleum, saying these are nuisance taxes that have low revenue yielding potential and at the same time impose significant burden on the private sector and on the average Ghanaian .Francis Agyei, a 32-year-old second-hand clothing seller in Accra says: These measures introduced by the government will help businesses a lot and the one district one factory policy by the new administration, if implemented, will enable some of us to go back home for jobs because in Accra here we use a good part of our incomes on rent. If I were in my home town I wouldn t have to pay rent. I can use that rent money for something else. But a lecturer at the economics department of the University of Ghana, Owusu Adu Sarkodie, says Francis s hopes and aspirations could only be achieved if managers of the economy and resources did things differently.He believes politicians should increase the revenue tax net to cover the majority of people and move away from the borrowing mindset. We don t have to keep borrowing for borrowing s sake. Even if we have to borrow we need to use the money prudently. If you look at the public debt right now, the greater part of it was for consumption. For example, last year we borrowed 17 billion cedis, we only invested 7 billion, where did the rest go? Consumption, he said.If words were action then these words uttered by the President Nana Akufo-Addo in his maiden state of the nation address to parliament some two weeks ago should offer some hope to Ghanaians: We will put in place policies that will deliver sustainable growth and cut out corruption. We will set upon the path to build a Ghana that is not dependent on charity; a Ghana that is able to look after its people through intelligent management ofthe resources with which it has been endowed. This Ghana will be defined by integrity, sovereignty, a common ethos, discipline, and shared values. It is one where we aim to be masters of our own destiny, where we mobilise our own resources for the future, breaking the shackles of the Guggisberg colonial economy and a mind-set of dependency, bailouts and extraction. It is an economy where we look past commodities to position ourselves in a global marketplace. It is a country where we focus on trade, not aid, a hand-up, not a hand-out. It is a country with a strong private sector. It is a Ghana beyond aid. IPSKwaku BotweKwaku Botwe is an IPS correspondent