The streets of Gauteng are filled with beggars from neighbouring countries like Zimbabwe who came to South Africa in search of a better life.Instead they have been forced to live on the streets with their children begging for handouts of money and scraps of food. They face the constant risk of being caught for being in the country illegally, and facing a life of homelessness and food insecurity.Zimbabwe Consul-General Henry Mukonoweshuro acknowledges that the high unemployment rate has forced many of his compatriots to become refugees in foreign countries, including South Africa. I was not aware that the beggars in the streets are from Zimbabwe. However, I will conduct research and see what I can do. Probably they flee the country thinking things are better here because the rate of unemployment is high in Zimbabwe, Mukonoweshuro said.Women with little children spend the whole day begging at intersections in Johannesburg and Pretoria, targeting often unsympathetic and sometimes even hostile motorists for money. I came to South Africa trying to escape starvation in my country but I found myself begging at the traffic lights so that my children can have something to eat before they go to bed, Faith Chauke, a Zimbabwean national said.Chauke said they live in constant hope that someone will come to their rescue to offer them a job that will drastically change their lives.The beggars are willing to bite the bullet in the hope that things will change for the better someday. Marc Gbaffou, chairperson of Diaspora Forum, an entity that represents foreign nationals in the country, said: It is difficult to provide shelter to the people living on street corners because if we did, they would be completely dependent on us.We don t have unlimited resources but whenever we have food parcels we distribute and share what we have with them. Chauke, 28, told The New Age that to increase her take-home money, she moves from one traffic light to another daily. She said she has been in South Africa for 12 years and used the money she got through begging to support her three children ranging from two years to seven. I do not have a permanent spot. I move from one area to another to beg, hoping that the strategy will pay off and give me enough money to support my three children, Chauke said.Liesl Muller of Lawyers for Human Rights, said even though they were beggars, the best interest of the children was served by them being with their parents. A child is to remain with their parents. If the mother sees a way of having their children work for her, it s still better for the children to be with the mother, Muller said.But the Commission for Gender Equality s Mbuyiselo Botha said it was quite disturbing that children were exposed to begging at an early age. The child s rights are being trampled upon because the child has no say on whether they want to be. In a way the child s rights are being abused since they can t stand up for themselves, Botha said.Research by the European Interagency Security Forum (EISF) shows that since 2008, at least 5000 Zimbabweans have been leaving the country every day. There are approximately four million Zimbabweans living abroad, most illegally in surrounding countries where their presence is creating socio-economic pressures and tensions among local communities, the report states.