The government s refusal to give the Commonwealth Games Federation a blank cheque appears to have scuppered the country s rights to host the Durban 2022 edition.A federation review team has been assessing the submissions and will announce Durban s fate either today or tomorrow when it meets the federation executive board in London. Spokesperson Martin Reynolds yesterday confirmed that a final recommendation on Durban 2022 would be made this weekend.South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) president Gideon Sam, who is in London for the meeting, said African countries were keeping their fingers crossed that the games remained with Durban. Africans have never hosted these games and will be saddened if we are not given the nod to host. But we will have to wait and see, Sam said. A source close to the federation, however, said the odds were against South Africa. You don t even have to be a rocket scientist to see what the decision will be. South Africa has not shown signs of being serious about hosting the games. They failed to make the requisite financial guarantees. There is no local organising committee, 18 months after South Africa was awarded the rights to host. There is no CEO that the CGF can communicate with. It s all in shambles and the federation can t entrust South Africa with the games, the source said. It is estimated that Durban would have to pay R8.2bn to host the event. The budget allocated for the games stands at R4bn, which is not enough.The Treasury guaranteed that should the R4.6bn run out, it would only add 18% of the originally planned budget, which appears to have caused the standoff with the federation. Department of Sport spokesperson Esethu Hasane said they were still in the dark about the federation s decision. We will wait on them because they promised we will get an answer before the end of the month. We have no idea, it s still the same situation and we can t predict, Hasane said. The source said the federation already had four replacements for South Africa. The CGF has four other options and indications are that they will not want to risk anything and give the games to an unsure South Africa when countries and cities like Australia, Liverpool and New Zealand are keen on hosting. Liverpool has put itself forward to replace Durban if the city is dropped. The city had already announced interest in the 2026 Games. Liverpool is interested in hosting the games in 2022.We have heard rumours that Durban might be unable to deliver the Commonwealth Games in 2022 and have already indicated to the government that we are very willing to host them instead, a Liverpool city council spokesperson recently said.-Mthokozisi Dube|mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za