THE World Consumer Rights Day 2017 celebration and the swearing in of 10 new consumer affairs court officials will take place in Kroonstad next week. The celebration will be held at Seeisoville Hall next Wednesday where more than 1 200 members of the public are expected to attend the ceremony. Economic, Small Business Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs spokesperson Khotso Tau said people will also have an opportunity to learn about their right to quality products and services as well as the responsibilities as consumers. He said the theme for this year was Consumer rights in the digital age. World Consumer Rights Day is an annual celebration to promote the basic rights of all consumers. All citizens are mobilised to demand that those rights are respected and protected, and to protest the market abuses and social injustices, which undermine them, Tau said. He said the celebration will be anchored on supporting the government s initiatives to employ all possible interventions to strengthen the skills of consumers using digital economy. Issues that will be discussed about the digital economy include which online services consumers can trust, what happens to the data that you share online and what consumer rights are in relation to digital products, Tau said. He said this year s celebrations would be merged with the swearing in of 10 new consumer affairs court officials by MEC Dr Benny Malakoane. These officials will take an oath of office to serve for a period of two years, Tau said. He said the event would commence at 9am until 1pm next Wednesday. South Africa has a Consumer Protection Act, which allows consumers certain rights such as the right to privacy, to choose your product, to fair and honest dealing, to disclosure of information, to fair and responsible marketing, to accountability by suppliers, to fair value, good quality and safety, to fair, just and reasonable terms and conditions and to equality in the consumer market plus protection against discriminatory marketing. If dissatisfied, the consumer should contact the National Consumer Commission for guidance or assistance with a dispute that cannot be amicably resolved. In the interests of getting quick and cost free redress, it is advisable to first raise a complaint with the business or provider of goods and services. The NCC provides its services free of charge to all consumers. The NCC is charged with the responsibility to enforce and carry out the functions assigned to it in terms of the act. The act seeks to promote a fair, accessible and sustainable marketplace for consumer products and services and for that purpose to establish national norms and standards relating to consumer protection throughout the Republic of SA, the organisation said in its profile. It further seeks to provide for improved standards of consumer information, to prohibit certain unfair marketing and business practices, to promote responsible consumer behaviour and to promote a consistent legislative and enforcement framework relating to consumer transactions and agreements. BECKER SEMELA