The appointment of a commission of inquiry into state capture remains the president s prerogative Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown said yesterday.The minister was briefing the public enterprises portfolio committee in Parliament yesterday.IFP chief whip Narend Singh told Brown that the elephant in the room was the State of Capture report of former public protector Thuli Madonsela.Brown, he said, had made statements in support of an inquiry in the past. In January you said I really hope the President appoints the commission. It s necessary so we can talk things through . Singh wanted to know from Brown whether she had taken it up with the president to appoint a commission of inquiry .Brown answered cautiously, saying: Let me talk about the State of Capture report. If there s a commission of inquiry then what I say in this meeting could be affected within that commission.Brown was adamant that it remained President Zuma s prerogative to institute an inquiry. It remains my view it s the president s prerogative. It remains my view that there should be a commission of inquiry. There should be an inquiry because an inquiry is the only way we are going to put all the matters on the table. It has to happen. That s the issue, Brown said. If we were to take the report in its entirety and go through everything and look at what the prescripts are then we ll get to the nub of the issue. I think it would be better if it s taken in its entirety. Off course it s the prerogative of the president. I am waiting for some inquiry, the minister said.Before Madonsela s report came out, said Brown, she had asked board members of all the state-owned companies that fell under her ministry if they had any conflicts of interest.Four members of Eskom s board resigned. Brown declined to name them because they had not told her why they were leaving. It s not as if I m sitting and I m twiddling my thumbs while Rome is burning, she said, adding she wrote to the boards in her portfolio four times a year to inquire about possible conflicts of interests.On state-owned companies, Brown said there was a proposal to move to a shareholder management model. She has six companies in her portfolio, while there were 700 plus state-owned companies. All of them must be consulted. We ve got a proposal of what a Shareholder Management Bill should look like. We got the model that feeds that bill. Now it has to go to everybody else to comment on. That is where the process is. The process is going to take a long time. The proposals were of such a nature it could mean the restructuring of all state-owned companies forever. It has that kind of possibility. It s interesting. It s fascinating. It should be able to work. We are now talking of the restructuring of the state. If you get the principles right some of the others will follow. Brown said that recently she had seen a letter from a minister who wrote: I actually don t agree with any of what you re saying. So we ve got to lobby for this thing. On Denel Asia, she had instructed the company that it could not start doing business in the East which she said was the fastest growing arms market in the world until it they had approval from the national Treasury.She has given her sanction. We have not heard from the national Treasury. I don t know if they agree or not. I ve told them until there is an agreement from the national Treasury they are not allowed to trade. It does put the company in an invidious position. I think Denel, the national Treasury and ourselves should meet, Brown said.She has written to the Treasury but was still awaiting a reply, she said.-DENNIS CRUYWAGEN