Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown has unlocked the abbreviation, WEE, for high school pupils in George, Western Cape.Speaking at a careers expo, she said the apartheid government believed it was senseless to teach black children subjects such as science or mathematics because they didn t need such knowledge to work in gardens, supermarkets and factories.With a few exceptions, she said, the highest levels blacks could go then was to become a teacher, preacher or nurse. Higher professions such as doctors, lawyers and engineers were reserved for white people. They had a policy of WEE. And by that I refer not to their toilet habits, but to White Economic Empowerment, the minister said. By the time you were born, these policies had been flushed away by our democratically elected government. While these policies were gone, their consequences were still around. In impoverished homes and communities, in the massive divide between the rich and poor, and in the masses of unskilled and unemployed people. Other consequences included overcrowded homes, the struggles of parents to put bread on the table, domestic violence, high levels of substance abuse including alcohol, the indignity and hardship of joblessness, teenage pregnancies, and the number of people, 17 million, who were dependent on getting grants from the South African Social Security Agency. The big difference between then and now, however, is that a framework has been established that gives you the power to address your circumstances. To extract yourselves from the poverty trap, to add dignity to your parents lives. And, collectively, to drag your families and communities with you, Brown said. This power is something you should treasure; it s something your parents and grandparents didn t have. It s your ticket. The minister said there were critical imbalances in society and the stillskewed economy. The unemployment rate was increasing, precious few jobs were available, but there were lots of vacancies for those with a grounding in mathematics and science. That s why we are together today. If there s one thing we must achieve it will be to raise our downcast eyes to see the real opportunities that await us, if we want them badly enough. If we are willing to take responsibility for ourselves, she said.South Africa, she said, does not need more unskilled labour but it needed doctors, lawyers, accountants, biologists, physicists and mathematicians. Stateowned entities also required engineers, geologists, foresters and pilots. They need systems designers and analysts, software writers, project managers. They need the CEOs and chief financial officers of tomorrow. And some of these people should come from George, she said.To make these dreams possible, she said, Eskom would award 10 bursaries to George pupils to study engineering and medicine next year. Eskom will further be installing intercom systems at the four schools to create safer and more effective learning environments. I am told a local service provider has already engaged the schools on this matter. She saidDenel had agreed to create a winter school camp for matrics. The camp would provide pupils with the opportunity to work with specialist experiential teachers, and build intergenerational relationships. Among the envisaged outcomes of the winter camp will be team building, developing leadership skills, and improving abilities to overcome limitations. This is something I want to do in all regions of our country. Transnet, she said, would improve conditions at George High School s hostels in the coming financial year. The parastatal would also donate four libraries. Her department, she said, has donated sanitary towels and school uniforms. There was also a process from her department to repair the fence at Thembalethu High School. We are not here to play Mother and Father Christmas. We are here to urge you to get the results you need to enter the careers our economy needs, Brown said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za