Entries are now officially opened for the fifth annual Lilizela Tourism Awards. The Free State regional awards will be held in September. </p> The awards honour those who have done exceptionally well in the tourism industry. South African Tourism CEO Sisa Ntshona said the awards were an initiative of the Department of Tourism. He said the criteria for the awards are constantly being refined, through ongoing consultation and feedback surveys, to ensure hospitality establishments, venues, service providers and tourism attractions meet industry and traveller requirements. Ntshona said their main objective is to contribute towards inclusive growth while helping new players grow in the industry. The importance of transforming tourism and its feeder industries cannot be understated. Tourism has the potential to act as an engine for growth in South Africa. This includes the potential to create employment, generate foreign exchange, encourage entrepreneurship and act as a driver for other sectors of the economy, Ntshona said. He said they would be introducing exciting changes that would see the awards growing from strength to strength. There is a growing need for sustainable and responsible practices in all tourism enterprises. From 2018 we will introduce specific sustainability criteria for the Lilizela Tourism Awards. This will coincide with the intended responsible tourism recognition measures introduced by the Tourism Grading Council of South Africa during 2017, Ntshona said . He said all tourism businesses were eligible to enter and would be judged by a panel of industry professionals and a public vote. We hope to showcase these beacons of excellence and motivate them to continue delivering exceptional, authentic, memorable experiences to travellers. Hospitality can be a challenging and highly demanding industry but we value their efforts in helping South Africa grow, Ntshona said. The categories include service excellence, universal accessibility, the minister s award for innovation in tourism and the emerging tourism entrepreneur of the year award. The awards honour those who have done exceptionally well in the tourism industry. South African Tourism CEO Sisa Ntshona said the awards were an initiative of the Department of Tourism. He said the criteria for the awards are constantly being refined, through ongoing consultation and feedback surveys, to ensure hospitality establishments, venues, service providers and tourism attractions meet industry and traveller requirements. Ntshona said their main objective is to contribute towards inclusive growth while helping new players grow in the industry. The importance of transforming tourism and its feeder industries cannot be understated. Tourism has the potential to act as an engine for growth in South Africa. This includes the potential to create employment, generate foreign exchange, encourage entrepreneurship and act as a driver for other sectors of the economy, Ntshona said. He said they would be introducing exciting changes that would see the awards growing from strength to strength. There is a growing need for sustainable and responsible practices in all tourism enterprises. From 2018 we will introduce specific sustainability criteria for the Lilizela Tourism Awards. This will coincide with the intended responsible tourism recognition measures introduced by the Tourism Grading Council of South Africa during 2017, Ntshona said . He said all tourism businesses were eligible to enter and would be judged by a panel of industry professionals and a public vote. We hope to showcase these beacons of excellence and motivate them to continue delivering exceptional, authentic, memorable experiences to travellers. Hospitality can be a challenging and highly demanding industry but we value their efforts in helping South Africa grow, Ntshona said. The categories include service excellence, universal accessibility, the minister s award for innovation in tourism and the emerging tourism entrepreneur of the year award. MICHAEL TLHAKUDI