For South Africa to attain fundamental economic transformation, its industrial development agenda needs interventions anchored on a combination of inclusivity and structural change, the executive director at the Mapungubwe Institute for Strategic Reflection, Joel Netshitenzhe said.He made the comments in a speech at the Economic Research Advisory Network (ERAN) conference, in Bloemfontein, yesterday. ERAN is a Department of Trade and Industry coordinated economic research advisory network, established to bridging a diverse community of researchers for the purpose of bringing existing and new knowledge to the forefront of economic development, competitiveness debates and initiatives in the South African economy.Netshitenzhe supported the pursuit of both structural change and inclusive growth, contending that economic transformation and inclusivity cannot be an elitist undertaking. He warned that if the structure of the economy continued to be premised on narrow racial capitalism, it might continue to reproduce the inequalities that have been inherited from the apartheid regime. The totality of the process of transformation as demanded by our Constitution is in itself radical because it is a revolution to restructure the sociopolitical relations of apartheid and build a national democratic society, Netshitenzhe. In the current context, radical is meant to refer to the content of policy as well as social outcomes and the pace and effectiveness of implementation, he said. In my view, it is possible that ordinary interventions which are properly planned, aligned and properly sequenced can in fact produce extraordinary outcomes. He said that radical economic transformation can be sought in the combination of structural change and inclusive transformation through the implementation of the National Development Plan and the various iterations of the Industrial Policy Action Plan. We need to exploit some of the niches in low-end manufacturing through Industrial Development Zones and Special Economic Zones, he said. In succeeding in all of this we need a capable developmental state with a vision, with legitimacy in society and this legitimacy will not only be derived from efficient implementation but also with ethics. It is difficult to mobilise society under a vision when you are not ethical, he said.Netshitenzhe advocated the establishment of a pilot agency to steer and monitor progress on development goals. All developmental states had a pilot agency. We must combine restructuring and inclusive growth, he said.-TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za