The newly-crowned Miss South Africa has placed empowering women as her top priority during her 12-month reign as the country s flag-bearer.Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters believes the girl child needs to be encouraged to realise their dreams. My vision for my year as Miss SA 2017 is to help women help themselves. Not only to give them a fish to eat but to teach them how to fish in order to create a sustainable life for themselves. I look forward to partnering with corporates, the government and social entrepreneurs to implement mentoring programmes to teach young South African women how to start and run their own businesses in order to create a sustainable future not only for themselves but for their communities as well, Peters said.South Africa was introduced to Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters as the new Miss South Africa as her radiant smile coupled with her tears of joy lit up Sun City s Superbowl on Sunday.The 21 year old went head to head with 11 others and emerged victorious in the closely contested pageant.The Western Cape-born beauty was adorned with a finely detailed tiara as she took over the reins from Ntandoyenkosi Kunene. As a young girl, I would watch the Miss South Africa competition wishing with all my heart one day I would be able to walk on that stage just like those glamorous women I saw on TV. I wear this crown not only for that little girl in front of the TV but for every little girl with a dream, every South African with a dream of a better life, for every single person with a wish of wanting to live as the highest truest versions of themselves, she said.Nel-Peters said her inspiration is Miss South Africa 2003 and Miss Universe second runner up Cindy Nel. She has always been a woman I look up to. She is a Miss South Africa that really used the platform to the best of her ability. She has always been unapologetically dynamic and is now a successful businesswoman. I found a lot of value in her model and pageant handbook, she said.She spoke fondly of her family as her pillar of strength .She made special reference to her sister as her biggest motivator. I have a 10-year-old half-sister, Franje. She is my dad and step-mom s daughter. She was born without a cerebellum and is completely disabled. She is my biggest motivator in life, she said.NONTOKOZO GXUMISAnews@thenewage.co.za