AS LUTHER Singh s stock continues to rise both locally and internationally, comparisons with Bafana Bafana legend Benni McCarthy continue to crop up.The 19 year old finished the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) tournament as top goal scorer with four goals, winning an award that McCarthy was awarded at the 1997 edition of the tournament. The youngster feels it is too early to compare him to the former Bafana Bafana star, who is the all-time leading goal scorer at national level. Benni is a big guy. You can t compare me to him, Singh said. I ve watched him and learned from him but then again his shoes are too big to fill and I m not putting myself under pressure. Singh yesterday arrived in the country with the Amajita team that did duty at the U-20 Afcon in Zambia, where the team finished fourth. Since his appearance in the U-20 Cosafa Cup last year, Singh has been dubbed the new Benni McCarthy because of his scoring prowess.The 19 year old, who is based in Portugal playing for Sporting Braga, has had almost a similar start to his career as that of McCarthy. McCarthy also secured a move to play in Europe at the age of 20 along with being crowned the 1997 U-20 Afcon top goal scorer.Like many other young SA footballers, Singh has been admiring of McCarthy for a long time and to be compared to him is a great thing. While the young striker is encouraged by all the attention he is getting, he feels he needs to do more with the national team to justify his burgeoning status. It s not something that I can talk and go on about and make myself seem like I m Lionel Messi or someone. It s a stepping stone, I m just working on building myself for bigger things, Singh said. I was top goal scorer at Cosafa and a few months later I m top goal scorer at the Afcon, I am proud and again my teammates did a lot for me. Though representing Bafana has been his childhood dream, Singh only expected it to come true two years from now. I never saw myself being in Bafana at the age of 19, my target was at the age of 21 but again it s my hard work. I m not surprised about being there. I will go there with an aim to learn from the senior players and gain more experience and hopefully good things will come from there. Not only did Singh finish as the Afcon top goal scorer but he is also the only South African player in the team of the tournament first 11.sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi