THE Comrades Marathon, a premier date for long distance runners globally, is three months away and potential champions are raring to go. With this in mind, scores runners will be hoping to see if their preparations hold up when they take part in the Old Mutual Om Die Dam ultra marathon at Hartbeespoort Dam on Saturday.The race, now in its 27th year, is the largest inland marathon in South Africa and attracts more than 10000 participants each year. It is also consistently voted as one of the top races of the year and has built a well-deserved reputation as an excellent judge of preparations for the Comrades.In the Om Die Dam men s race, defending champion Fanie Matshipa will look to make it back-to-back titles but will face serious competition from Ludwick Mamabolo. For his part, Mamabolo is in search of his maiden trophy in 15 years of trying and to improve on the second place finish he achieved last year. I m just going to be running my own race this year at Om Die Dam, Mamabolo said. The route is so unique and running around the dam is great. The preparations have been good for me and I m looking forward to the race on Saturday. Another women s race favourite is Salome Cooper, who finished third last year. The veteran aims to finish in the top five and anything more than that will come as a bonus for her. My training has been going well. I m grateful that I ve been able to build a solid base without any injuries, Cooper said. What I have learned in the past is to have an easy start, as the second half of the race is challenging, especially Saartjies, but the most important thing is to keep going and to enjoy it. In the women s race, Julanie Basson said she will use this race to measure how much work is still needed ahead of the Comrades. For me, the fact that the Om Die Dam race is the first ultra marathon of the year makes it difficult, mostly from a mental point of view, Basson said. It is a well organised race and attracts athletes from all regions. If you re a Comrades runner, it makes you realise how much work is still needed to get you to up to speed for the event. The Comrades takes place on June 4 in KwaZulu-Natal.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza