The families of two South Africans locked up in the United Arab Emirates for having sex out of marriage, have pleaded for help from the South African authorities in that country.Linda Culverwell from Port Alfred said her health had deteriorated since her son Emlyn, 29, and his fiance Iryna Nohai were arrested in the UAE.Emlyn and Iryna who are from the Ukraine, have been incarcerated in the Al Wathba prison in Abu Dhabi since January 29 for violating the Islamic country s strict laws which ban sex outside marriage.Linda said she has a neurological disorder, lupus and was bipolar. There are three lives involved here if Iryna is still pregnant. It s been more than five weeks since they were taken into custody. We were told we can t visit them and calls are not allowed, she said.Emlyn had been working at Yas water world aqua park in Abu Dhabi for more than five years.The couple were arrested after visiting a doctor when Iryna complained of stomach cramps. They thought it was something they had eaten at the weekend. Emlyn then took Iryna to the hospital where the doctor said Iryna was pregnant and phoned the police. They are being charged for having sex out of marriage, Linda said.A Durban mother whose daughter is in a similar situation spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal from the UAE authorities. They moved her to four different police stations before imprisoning her after arresting her at the hospital, she said.She said her 30-year-old daughter had complained of severe bleeding and stomach pains for two weeks. We suspect she was pregnant and she lost her baby before the arrest, the mother said.The three are accused of zina, an Islamic term for extramarital sex. Those found guilty can be flogged and locked up for several months under the country s shariah law.Linda said a human rights organisation that was willing to help the couple charged about $8000 (R104000) per person for a lawyer. Emlyn and Nohai will appear in court on March 15.Nelson Qgwete, spokesperson for the Department of International Relations could not be reached for comment.ZODIDI MHLANAzodidim@thenewage.co.za