Social Development Minister Bathebile Dlamini expects to make an announcement about negotiations with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) over a new contract to continue paying social grants on April 1 on Friday.She made this declaration after more than a two-hour appearance before the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) yesterday. There is something that is nudging us to talk about negotiations. When you negotiate, you negotiate in good faith. We have not finalised, she said at the briefing that was filled with members of Parliament, civil society organisations and others. I have to report what I know. We have not signed any agreement with CPS. We said there were negotiations. She arrived late for the meeting and wanted to leave after almost two hours to attend a Cabinet meeting.Committee members, frustrated and angered by her handling of the matter, would have none of it. In the end, she stayed until the scheduled closure of the meeting.Dlamini gave a report on the build-up to the crisis, which started when the Constitutional Court ruled in 2014 that the contract with CPS was unlawful.She admitted that she, her department and the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) had underestimated the mammoth task to replace CPS.Discussions with CPS started this week. Asked by committee chairperson Themba Godi when there would be an announcement, she said: We ll make an announcement after receiving a report from the technical team. This announcement will be made on Friday.Dlamini rejected claims that South Africans will not get social payments on April 1. National crisis? We have been saying grants will be paid on April 1 and it depends on how an individual sees the whole issue, she said.During her appearance, Dlamini clashed with some MPs. She was offended by remarks made by senior ANC MP Nyami Booi.He said: We shouldn t leave the issue of Sassa with Sassa. If we don t mentor them, it means CPS will be here permanently. Dlamini said that the social development portfolio committee was better placed to mentor us .IFP MP Mkhuleko Hlengwa, was one of the committee members who criticised Dlamini because she was not following President Jacob Zuma s mantra of radical economic transformation by negotiating with a white-owned foreign company. He said CPS was also not BEE compliant.Such was the pressure that MPs subject Dlamini to, that at once stage she said: I m not an expert on some of the things they are not going to force me to say some things. Then I m told the minister lied. I m not a liar. About her non-appearance at last week s Scopa meeting, Dlamini said: Firstly, last week I did not come here because I had other responsibilities. The issue of grants, I agree is very important and I don t want South Africans to think I am arrogant. Because people have been counting meetings I didn t attend and never asked why I didn t attend. Also the relevant structures knew where I was. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za