THE Film and Publication Board (FPB) has welcomed the sentencing of Jayde Sheldon Bailey for importing, possession and distribution of films and publications which contain depictions or descriptions which encourage or promote child pornography. It is important to ensure that perpetrators of child pornography are brought to book and the FPB continues to advocate for the prosecution of these perpetrators FPB s spokesperson Janine Raftopoulos said. The FPB Act prohibits the creation, possession and distribution of child pornography and thus view the conviction and sentencing as a strong message to perpetrators of child pornography. He was sentenced for five years in prison by the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court for crimes involving online sexual exploitation of children. Subsequent to his sentencing, his lawyer brought an application for leave to appeal and he was released on bail. Bailey and his 23-year-old female friend were arrested in March 2015 after police uncovered two hard drives containing 560 sexual explicit images and 401 videos containing child pornography at Bailey s Westering family home. They were arrested in an international police operation called Cloud Nine. Raftopoulos said the FPB has personnel who are trained on safety and risk assessment in the field of child protection services and is a certified content analyst who acts an expert witness in cases involving child pornography. According to the FPB Act child pornography includes any image, however created or any description of a person, real or simulated, who is or who is depicted to appear to look like or described as being under the age of 18 years. FPB is a member of the International Association of Internet Hotlines (INHOPE) which is an active and collaborative global network of hotlines which is aimed at curbing both the exposure of children to pornography as well as the distribution of material containing child pornography. Our membership of INHOPE has extended the network and resources available, therefore increasing the effectiveness with which the FPB executes its mandate, Raftopoulos said. The FPB said it would continue to work closely with the South African Police Service and the National Prosecuting Authority to ensure that perpetrators are prosecuted. KUTULLO MADISHA &nbsp;