Casino and hotel giant Sun International has cut dividends down to zero for the period ended December, citing tough trading conditions, debt reduction and the need to complete the initiative at Time Square in Pretoria.Adjusted headline earnings of R232m for the year are 35% below the prior year with diluted adjusted headline earnings per share down 35% to 223 cents. The company however reported a 31% increase in group revenue to R7.7bn for the period. The company attributed revenue growth to the inclusion of Dream SA and GPI Slots operations for the period.The group also cited that trading conditions linked to macro-economic conditions and reduced consumer spend affected revenue in the period. An interest in international tourism helped boost revenue by 14%. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda)for the period increased by 24%. On a comparable basis, excluding the consolidated GPI Slots and Dreams SA Operations, Ebitda decreased by 12%.Sun International said that the current economic climate in South Africa continued to impact negatively on the group s core casino operations, with casino revenue down 2.7% following weaker than expected December 2016 trading. While the group s International VIP Gaming Business (IB) experienced an increase in volumes, this was offset by a low win percentage.However GPI Slots continues to trade well, with revenue up 10%. The group s borrowings at 31 December 2016 amounted to R14.5bn, R455m above the 30 June 2016 levels. The increase in borrowings is primarily attributable to the purchase of a further 19.9% interest in GPI Slots (R262 m); expenditure on Time Square (R1.2 bn), offset by receipt of proceeds from the 10% sale of SunWest and Worcester to Tsogo in the prior period (R505m); and foreign currency translation reserve movement on debt in foreign subsidiaries.The opening of the casino at Time Square in April is expected to have a positive impact on the group s performance going forward. In Latin America, the Chilean economy, although still experiencing low GDP growth, is showing positive signs of an improvement with an increase in the copper price and low inflation and interest rates. Although trading in the early part of 2017 has remained subdued it is expected to pick up towards the end of the year.&#8211;Thelma Ngoma|thelman@thenewage.co.za