THE PROVINCIAL government will spend R1bn annually on educational infrastructure in a bid to enhance the culture of teaching and learning in Mpumalanga. Premier David Mabuza made the announcement at the state of the province address debate. It took place at the Mpumalanga provincial legislature in Mbombela. The debate was relating to information unpacked by Mabuza when he tabled the state of the province address almost a week ago about the progress accomplished by the ANC-led provincial government in the previous years and other developments planned for the 2017-18 financial year. Mabuza revealed the plan on the improvement of education as he was shooting down allegations by EFF provincial leader and member of the provincial legislature Collen Sedibe that some pupils were still denied their rights to access education in a good environment, especially in the Bushbuckridge area.Among other issues, the EFF representative in the house said the pupils were still learning under trees and in mud classrooms. He further said some schools had been built by the community after the government dragged its feet to come to rescue of the pupils. Mabuza said the allegations were unfounded because the ANC-led government had already put educational matters on the list of their prioritised provision of services. As a province, we do not have mud schools as claimed by the honourable member (Sedibe). We are also not aware of the children who are learning under trees. However, we do have schools built by communities many years ago, in particular in the Bushbuckridge region, using substandard building materials and practices, Mabuza said. We have time and again acknowledged this and through our multiyear schools infrastructure rehabilitation programme are addressing this issue systematically. He said although the Bushbuckridge area was previously under the control of the Limpopo provincial government, much was later done to improve various issues including building of schools by the Mpumalanga government when the area was incorporated into the province. But it must be said that since Bushbuckridge was re-incorporated into Mpumalanga we have drastically reduced the number of poorly constructed schools. The department of education has an annual budget of about R17bn, the backlog on education infrastructure alone is R20bn. The backlog is half of our total provincial budget. If we were to dedicate all our resources to eradicate this particular backlog, it would mean that we stop providing almost all other basic services including houses, clinics, hospitals, roads and even salaries. We are spending more than R1bn a year on education infrastructure. We are renovating and building a significant number of new schools in Bushbuckridge as part of our efforts to bolster school infrastructure, meet the minimum norms and standards and eradicate poorly built schools. Mabuza further condemned the unbearable behaviour of disrupting proceedings at Parliament and provincial legislatures which has seemingly became the culture of the EFF. We welcome any solution that seeks to assist us in addressing the challenges we are facing. The sad reality though is that what the member and his colleagues have done and continue to do is to try to disrupt the proceedings of this house, treating it like a shebeen. We need an opposition that is not only critical but also constructive in opposing each other, questioning, testing and debating. We may be pushed towards solutions that are forged out of respect for the needs of those who remain reliant on our interventions and support, Mabuza said. FRANCE NYAKA&nbsp;