African National Congress (ANC) Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte has slammed Anglogold Chairman and Save SA campaigner Sipho Pityana as a “populist ” attempting to dismiss the character of President Jacob Zuma. Duarte made the comments on Sunday during the maiden broadcast of Straight Talk hosted by political analyst Sfiso Mahlangu. According to Duarte, Pityana has employed his previous links to the ANC to promote an anti-Zuma narrative. Duarte said Pityana, to her knowledge, was not a member of the ruling party. “It is not certain. Everybody has been trying to check that. I can’t say for sure because I have not heard from a branch in the ANC that says he is our member. Until I hear that I am not convinced,” said Duarte. Pityana has become a thorn in the ANC’s side by crticising the party’s top leadership as well as calling for President Jacob Zuma to step down from his position. Earlier in the year, ahead of the presidents State of The Nation Address (SONA), Pityana hosted an alternative event labeling it the “Real SONA” where he criticised Zuma, calling him “the worst head of the post-apartheid state and the worst President the African National Congress has ever had.” However Duarte on Sunday dismissed Pityana who serves as Chairman of mining company Anglogold as “speaking for business” and having “highly questionable” stances. “He is concerned about the value of the rand and he has not acknowledged the complicity of the banks in colluding to bring the value of the rand down,” she said. “He has also been talking about dismissing workers from his mine. So everything he says is highly questionable to me…I don’t believe that one can believe a person who simply shouts negativity about another person and does not rationally approach a problem he may have,” said Duarte. Pityana first made a splash when last year, during the funeral of the reverend Makhenkhesi Stofile, he criticised Zuma for among others “flouting the Constitution” and saying he was “unfit to be in office.” Meanwhile during the conversation on Sunday, Duarte spoke on a variety of issues including leadership succession in the ANC, efforts by the party to win back the electorate as well as the upcoming elective conference. -TNA Reporter 