The ANC s proposal to convene a consultative conference with traditional leaders is a little too late, Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) president kgosi Setlamorago Thobejane said yesterday.Thobejane said Contralesa viewed with scepticism , the ANC s push for a talk shop with traditional leaders of issues affecting traditional authorities and their communities.He said that the move lacked sincerity and was more about the ruling party trying to prevent Contralesa dumping the ANC and forming its own political body. It is forced by circumstance. This should have been done a long time ago. We told them our standpoint, they know our position, Thobejane said.He said that Contralesa s gripe with the ANC had to do with the ruling party s sluggish approach to implement land reform and redistribution policies. Land is a fundamental issue of the liberation struggle. Without land there are not traditional authorities. This should have been the immediate thing to be addressed. Thobejane said Contralesa was not convinced about the ANC s intention. We are sick and tired of the manner in which they are undermining us, he said.Thobejane last month also made a plea to Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan not to shortchange traditional authorities in his budget speech. We don t have one kingship in the country, we have more than seven that have been confirmed by the state, so all of them must be allocated the necessary budget. In South Africa, it is the only institution that is recognised by law, but not by the allocation of funds. We are recognised only by name but not in the government budgets, he said.Contralesa is known for its historical linkage to the ANC. It is part of the mass democratic movement that has voted for the ANC since the ruling party took office in 1994.Contralesa said that its problems with the ANC were related to the ruling party s unwillingness to hold various bilateral meetings with the organisation over the years.Contralesa said that it had now run out of patience with the ANC on its land reform policies.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za