When passion and career come together, excellence is inevitable as has been shown by some of the cream of the crop in the teaching profession.South Africa s top teachers, some of whom have been in the profession for more than four decades and others barely for three years, it would seem the passion for children and education is an inextinguishable flame once ignited.They were recognised at the National Teachers Awards at the weekend. After 42 years of service Mahommed Farouk Bayat, 65, passed on the teaching baton at the end of January this year.The retired English teacher and principal said he dedicated his life to teaching children beyond the classroom. He was honoured for his lifetime achievements by the basic education department. I think the passion that I have had and the contribution that I have made is being rewarded now with recognition nationally of a lifetime s work, he said.Bayat has seen all the curriculum changes in his four decades as a teacher. He said the changes presented a challenge in the classroom as there was not always sufficient training of teachers every time a new syllabus was introduced. What happens largely now is that teachers are using time after school and the weekend to ensure that they do justice to the curriculum. It is a packed curriculum that needs to be cleared so they do not just try to beat the clock, Bayat said.Marika Smit, 28, said her love for children was greater than any challenge she has had to face as a teacher. She said while teaching children who faced dire socio-economic challenges was sometimes hard, her desire to make a difference in their lives kept her going.She is a Grade 1 teacher at Bottelary Primary School in the Western Cape. I try to create a safe haven for my pupils. I really aim to lay a strong foundation for all my pupils. I want them to remember Grade 1 as their favourite childhood memory.To me, education is not about the money. It is about seeing how I can help my children reach for their dreams and help them realise their potential, Smit said.The biggest challenge at her school was that many of their children suffered from foetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) and took a bit longer for them to grasp certain things.She lamented the lack of adequate support from the government in ensuring that the pupils were given enough time to get through the system.Fazlin Kola who teaches Grade 10 and 11 mathematics at Zinniaville Secondary in the Northern Cape said overcrowding and the heavy administrative work teachers had to do added to the pressure of the job. She said the expectation from the department to cover the syllabus was sometimes at the disadvantage of the pupils. According to what they want as far as the syllabus goes, there s a lot more that needs to be done within the time given. But I think if we can just get more guidance from the department, maybe narrow it down in the lower grades and cover those things more thoroughly, a better basic foundation will be formed, Kola saidShe lamented the lack of involvement by parents in their children s lives.She said while remuneration should not be a driving force in people choosing to become teachers, salaries of teachers needed to be improved. Young teacher Maria Mgwigwi, 29, said balancing the roles of being a teacher, a wife and new mother was challenging for her. I am still a young teacher, a new mother and wife. For example when my child is sick, instead of staying at home and nursing my child, I cannot because I am thinking of the 200 kids that are depending on me for guidance, I am thinking of the one child who had to walk a long distance to get to my class and I am not even there, she said.Mgwigiwi teaches mathematical literacy at Suncrest High School in Vanderbijlpark, Gauteng. Sarah Motsisi, 26, said the use of technology in the classroom made it easier for her to reach out to her pupils. When you let them play games on the computer it is easier for them to understand than they would with theory, she said.A Grade 4 mathematics teacher at Reseamohotse Primary School in the Free State, she was lauded by the Department of Basic Eucation for her excellence in technology-based teaching and learning in the classroom.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za