Businessman and crime fighter Naeem Desai s alleged killer has been sentenced to 16 years in prison in a separate case of attempted murder of a teenager in 2015.Deswin Kleinbooi, 22, a Kakdalers gang member, was sentenced in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court on Friday.Kleinbooi was convicted and sentenced for the attempted murder of a 17 year old in Ibex Road, Helenvale, which the police said was gang related. However, no one was injured in the incident. On May 14, 2016, Kleinbooi was arrested by the provincial gang investigation unit in Standford Road near Die Gaat. He remained in custody until the finalisation of his case. Kleinbooi is also one of two accused in the murder of businessman Naeem Desai, who was gunned down in May 2016 while sitting in his bread delivery truck in Helenvale, the police said.Desai was a prominent and popular community leader in Port Elizabeth. He founded Malabar Patrols community policing forum in 2008 following a spate of crimes in the area.Desai was outspoken against crime and gangsterism in the city and worked closely with the police and community where his bakery business, Jadeeds Bakery, operated.There had been reports that a notorious gang known as 16 Honde had been planning to assassinate him. His murder trial is expected to begin next month.Meanwhile, a 27-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his sister. It is alleged that the man entered a house in Wilgerboom Street and started stabbing his sister. The sister died on the street while running, trying to get away from the man. The man fled and detectives worked throughout the night to catch him. He is due to appear in the Steytlerville Magistrate s Court this morning on a charge of murder. The motive for the murder is not known at this stage. In Mthatha, the mounted unit continued with stock theft operations in Cofimvaba.A total of 11 sheep and eight goats were recovered. Stop and search operations were also conducted by members deployed within the Mthatha cluster in Dlomo Location.The PE mounted unit conducted visible patrols today in the Walmer area on horseback. Members patrolled theLorraine Shopping Centre and visited Exploras Daycare in Walmer.TNA Reporterprovinces@thenewage.co.za