Helen Zille has defended her tweets as an attempt to start a debate about factors that lead to economic transformation.In a debate about her tweets that had given the impression that she was in favour of colonialism, Zille claimed that few in the Western Cape legislature have put as much on the line to fight apartheid as I did .Facing ANC placards some of which read Don t drink and Tweet and Goodbye to racist Zille , she said yesterday her tweets did not defend, justify or praise colonialism or apartheid.She said colonialism had a diabolical impact worldwide, including South Africa. That, she said, was the premise of her tweets. In South Africa colonialism and apartheid subjugated and oppressed a majority and benefited a minority on the basis of race. This is indeed indefensible and I have never supported, justified, promoted it, as my life story attests, she said.Zille said whether or not a country was colonised was not the predictor of success in the 21st century. In Singapore, they have discussed for decades what factors led to their economic transformation. I wanted my series of tweets to initiate that debate here, Zille said.Speaker Sharna Fernandez, who was at one stage asked to recuse herself from the debate, presided over a raucous House. One of her tasks was to ask DA MEC Dan Plato to withdraw a remark in which he had called the ANC mushrooms. She also ordered the ANC s Richard Diyanje to leave the House.Some guests in the public gallery, wearing red, also wanted to take part in the proceedings and exchanged words with a staff member referring to him as a boy . The speaker suspended the House for five minutes.While the ANC made a meal of Zille s tweets, the DA followed a tactic of praising her track record and avoiding talking about the tweet.An exasperated ANC chief whip, Pierre Uys, later complained to the speaker: Let s accept that the DA has no argument in defending the premier. They used the most junior people here. The leader of the ANC in the legislature, Khaya Magaxa, who had called for the debate as a matter of urgent public importance, started off by saying that Zille would probably say in her defence that her tweets were taken out of context.He informed Zille that poverty and deprivation came with colonists. He said colonialism was inhumane and subjected people to slavery and cheap labour, as well as virtually exterminated the Khoi and San people in the Western CapeNot only did colonialism subdue the culture and language of African people, it was also a brutal and barbaric system. Colonialist honourable Zille must resign as premier of the Western Cape. She must go now, he said, adding that Zille needed a history lesson.Magaxa accused Zille of comparing apples with oranges, adding that her oranges were rotten. He also accused her of not caring about black people, except to use them for votes. She has finally come out of the closet. Accusing Zille, of being ignorant of South African and African history, the EFF s Bernard Joseph said the tweets were racially inclined. To encouragement from the ANC, Joseph asked Zille to do the honourable thing and resign as Western Cape Premier.DA member of the legislature Masizole Mnqasela praised Zille s political contribution. He was in the chamber, he said, to tell how Zille personified non-racialism, but also the rule of law, constitutionalism, redress and reconciliation.In defence of Zille, he said during the struggle she had given refuge to ANC activists such as Tony Yengeni, Nyami Booi and Mcebisi Skwatsha.Ferland Christians of the ACDP said colonialism like apartheid was wrong. As a Christian party the ACDP believed that Zille had apologised in the media.As a Christian party the ACDP believed in forgiveness, he said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za