Manhood has become a price too high for some, who have paid with their bodies and, sometimes, with their lives.Tears and harrowing tales of mothers losing their children in the rite of passage marked the first day of the hearings into the death of initiates by the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL) yesterday.Noma Sibisi (not her real name) relived the horror of the death of her nephew who was taken to an initiation school almost four years ago.Still an open wound for her, the aunt said all she wanted was to find out what became of her nephew after he died.Sibisi from Orange River said the boy who was 16 at the time, was taken to an initiation school in their area in June 2013 but was later brought back home after his family demanded his return. The teenager disappeared again six months later, never to be seen again. I was told he had gone back and I decided to let him stay there until they all returned. On the day the initiates came back he was not among them. I asked a man who was said to have been in charge of the school where my child was. He said he didn t know, Sibisi said. One of the friends told the police that he had died on January 4. We were told that he was beaten until he died because he could not sing the songs. Her nephew went missing on December 28 and is said to have died a week later.The family was told that the boy had been buried in a shallow grave at the initiation school, but the body is yet to be found. Sibisi said she could not get closure as her nephew was still classified as being alive and only missing. The last time I spoke to the police, about two years after the incident, an officer told us that he had been dumped at an army camp and not buried where they had said he had been.The officer said if I continued to pursue the case, many people would die, the aunt said.Another woman from Sedibeng said she wished initiation schools could be closed down as her son came back with a drug addiction.She now lives in fear of the son who dropped out of school on his return and is now part of a local gang.CRL commission chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said based on the submissions made at the hearing, it was clear that statistics recorded on the issue were likely not reflective of what was really happening out there. Our suspicion is that the statistics do not tell the whole story, she said.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za