ONCE again the DA and its puppet leader Mmusi Maimane is being selective about how the party interprets reports and its reactionary stance, which it passes off as a universal belief or standard.In reacting to Statistics South Africa s report on poverty, Poverty trends in South Africa: An examination of absolute poverty from 2006-2015, it says: The report highlights that between 2011 and 2015, poverty actually increased from 53.2% to 55.5%. There can surely be no greater indictment of any government s performance than the number of people living in poverty actually rising on their watch. After all, the primary objective of being in government must be to improve the lives of the poor. The DA in Cape Town and the Western Cape where it rules, have an appalling track record in dealing with the poor, in concentration-like settlements Blikkiesdorp and Wolwerivier, where the poor are shunted to in the name of development.Maimane picks out one statistic in a report that is 141 pages long, wilfully ignoring the other statistics, which give a contextualised viewpoint.The report says: While this report examines poverty from a money-metric perspective of households, it is critical to note the positive impact the provision of a social wage package has had in reducing poverty in the country. The social wage is a cornerstone of the government s efforts to improve the lives of the poor and reduce their cost of living. This approach was already highlighted in the RDP (1994), which emphasised improving living conditions through better access to basic physical 2 and social services, healthcare, education and training for rural communities. Social wages in South Africa are provided through a wide array of mechanisms. This includes free primary healthcare, no-fee paying schools, social protection (most notably old-age grants and child support grants), RDP housing, and the provision of free basic services (namely water, electricity and sanitation) to poor households. The report also says the government has made provisions in the budget for increased spending on social welfare grants, hence looking at providing some relief for the poorest and most vulnerable in our society. South Africa s national Treasury said total expenditure on social protection (mainly linked to the provision of social grants) was R164.9bn during the 2016-17 financial year three and it s projected to increase to R209.1bn by 2019-20. Also, the report says macro and micro-economic trends have affected households cash flow. International markets and their seesawing since 2008 has meant that many developing nations have been rendered sitting ducks. The success of the social wage can be viewed through the progress measured by the South African Multidimensional Poverty Index (Sampi). Sampi says household multi-dimensional poverty reduced from 17.9% in 2001 to 8% in 2011 and then fell further to 7% by last year. Progress between 2011 and 2016 (a decline of 1.0 percentage point) slowed tremendously, relative to the progress that was made between 2001 and 2011 (a decline of 9.9 percentage points). Nevertheless, multidimensional poverty still declined, highlighting the positive impact the social wage has had on the population. Unfortunately, while households gained better access to services and facilities, their financial well-being (as measured through money-metric poverty) suffered between 2011 and 2015 due to a combination of international and domestic factors such as stagnant economic growth, increasing unemployment, higher prices, poor consumer confidence, an unstable policy environment, and low commodity prices. Excuse the extensive quoting from the report but it is crucial in understanding the multiple dynamics at play, both at home and abroad, which impacts the economy as well as our individual pockets. It is grossly misrepresentative and mischievous to quote a portion of a 141-page report and claim that as a universal reality. With regard to Maimane s cherry-picking and ignoring empirical data to score cheap political points, Statistics South Africa says Despite the general decline in poverty between 2006 and 2011, poverty levels in South Africa rose in 2015. When applying the upper-bound poverty line (R992 per person per month in 2015 prices), we see more than one out of every two South Africans were poor in 2015, with the poverty head count increasing to 55.5% from a series low of 53.2% in 2011. This translates into over 30.4 million South Africans living in poverty in 2015. And here is where Maimane s mischief and selective rhetoric is blown out of the water: While the recent increase in the head count is unfortunate, we are still better off compared to the country s poverty situation from a decade earlier when it was estimated that two out of every three people (66.6% or roughly 31.6 million people) were living below the upper-bound poverty line in 2006. We are still better off than a decade ago but it means very little as we have a long way to go to eliminate poverty in South Africa.One of the key outcomes of the National Development Plan is to eradicate poverty by 2030 and drastically reduce the number of unemployed people.The report says that although South Africa was making progress between 2006 and 2011 with reducing poverty, since 2011 we have seen poverty levels increase. This means the country has lost ground in the war on poverty and now will have to reduce poverty at a faster rate than previously planned. The results further show there is still significant disparity in poverty levels between population groups and the gender of individuals. In general, black African females, children (17 years and younger), people from rural areas, those living in the Eastern Cape and Limpopo and those with no education are the main victims in the ongoing struggle against poverty. This is an honest assessment of where we are and how we need to proceed and at which rate. But for us to continue being reactionary and alarmist by painting only half a picture does our ambitions as a developing country more harm than good.Meokgo Matuba is the secretary-general of the ANC Women s League