The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) has laid charges of fraud and corruption against Malusi Gigaba as the former Minister of Home Affairs along with another Home Affairs official, Gideon Christians. OUTA claims that the Minister&#8217;s relationship with Christians, businessmen Ashu Chawla and Tony Gupta is suspicious and needs to be investigated. OUTA in a statement quoted advocate Stefanie Fick who is OUTA&#8217;s Head of Legal Affairs: The apparent close relationship between Christians, Gigaba, Chawla and Tony Gupta should be investigated as it appears from the evidence above that Chawla and Tony Gupta didn t have to follow prescribed procedure and received preferential treatment from government officials, said Fick in the affidavit. Malusi Gigaba was the Minister Home Affairs from 2014 until recently this year when he deployed to be the Minister of Finance. OUTA claims that it is during this period while Gigaba was with Home Affairs that the suspicious dealings and deployment of the Home Affairs official Gideon Christians occurred. From February 2008 to March 2014, Christians was the Second Secretary for immigration and civic services at the South African High Commission in New Delhi. From May 2014 to October 2014, he was back in South Africa as the assistant director of immigration services at Cape Town International Airport. &#8220;Then in October 2014, he was sent back to New Delhi as the assistant director for Foreign Office Coordination on a four-year deployment on Gigaba s instructions and apparently with some help from the Guptas in getting around his security clearance problem. He is currently the First Secretary for immigration and civic services at the South African High Commission in New Delhi, India, said OUTA. OUTA further alleges that Christians also assistant with visas for Gupta connections while was in New Delhi. It also claims that businessman, Ashu Chawla received information from Christians to assist the Guptas with bussiness. -TNA Reporter