STANDARD Bank is going to court today to force the Competition Tribunal to reveal the Competition Commission s records of investigation into the forex banking scandal. The bank was implicated with 17 others for allegedly engaging in collusive conduct in trading of foreign currency involving the rand. Standard Bank says in its founding affidavit that it was not notified that the commission was investigating it. At no stage did the commission engage with the bank, the affidavit says.The lender alleges it did not know about the allegations until after reports were published in the media. In a letter to the commission, a copy of which The New Age has, Standard Bank s legal representatives, international law firm Herbert Smith Freehills, cites that the bank noted that the commission has been widely reported as willing to treat respondents that cooperate more leniently and will seek maximum penalties for those who do not .The bank said that the only specific allegation involving Standard Bank was that the bank and others agreed on the size of the bid to offer spreads to charge customers for certain volumes of currency exchanges in contravention of the Competition Act . The bank further says it preferred to engage constructively with the commission on allegations.Related: BEF to lay criminal charges against banks for collusionHowever, without any evidence of the conduct in which it is alleged to have engaged, the bank is not in a position to engage with the commission on a meaningful basis . In an exclusive interview with The New Age, Competition Commissioner Tembinkosi Bonakele recently lambasted the banks for what he termed delaying tactics in resolving the banking forex manipulation scandal. These delaying tactics are holding back the Competition Commission from unleashing the full might of the law on companies that are guilty of colluding and price-fixing. We will wait them out, we are patient, he said.Bonakele commended Barclays Bank for coming forward and admitting guilt, as well as Citibank for their settlement agreement. The rest of the banks are using delaying tactics in litigation to drag this process out. Standard Bank, in particular, he said, was not fighting back as media had portrayed it. Fighting back would imply giving us evidence to clear their name. They have not done that. The information has been given to them, they must file an affidavit in response to allegations to disprove us, he said.In the scam, the banks helped each other by allowing a trader with a large open-risk position to complete his trades first before trading and through holding and/or pulling their trades to reserve liquidity for each other instead of trading normally in the market.Citibank additionally admitted to fixing bids, offers, and bid-offer spreads in relation to spot trades on rand currency pairs through coordination and alignment of the bids, offers, and bid-offer spreads quoted to customers.In the settlement agreement, Citibank will appear as a witness at their competitor s hearings and, the commission says, Citibank has already begun supplying information that is helpful to the commission s investigation.Watch: Tribunal confirms Citibank fine The Competition Tribunal said banks that have filed the exceptions include Investec, Standard New York Securities, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, JP Morgan Chase, BNP Paribas, Commerzbank AG, Macquarie Bank, HSBC Bank, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International and Nomura International.The 17 banks initially implicated include the Bank of America Merrill Lynch International, BNP Paribas, JP Morgan Chase &amp; Co, JP Chase Bank, Investec, Standard New York Securities, Standard Chartered Bank, HSBC Bank, Credit Suisse Group, Standard Bank of SA, Commerzbank AG, Australia and New Zealand banking group Nomura International, Macquarie Bank, Absa Bank, Barclays Capital and Barclays Bank.The commission describes the process of collusion as coordinated through agreements made to refrain from trading and creating fictitious bids and offers at particular times, therefore, manipulating offers and prices of bids . -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za