TRIBUTES continued to pour in yesterday for slain former ANC Youth League secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa as the ongoing political bloodshed in KZN remains in the spotlight.Police Minister Fikile Mbalula condemned the killings under the microscope of the Moerane Commission. He tweeted that the police would leave no stone unturned in the pursuit of Magaqa s assailants. Magaqa was shot a while ago, yesterday, he gave in.We will not rest till we find your killers. This morning I am lost for words yet again. The spate of killings in KZN has claimed the life of Sindiso Magaqa, Mbalula said.Magaqa, who was a ward councillor in Umzimkhulu in southern KwaZulu-Natal, died aged 35 at the Albert Luthuli Hospital in Durban this week. This came after he was shot in a suspected ambush in July. The ANC Youth League also expressed shock at Magaqa s death.The league called for the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal to stop the crisis in the province lest the bloodletting persisted. The ANCYL calls for the government to speedily deal with what has become known as political killings in this province. There are many leaders who have died, particularly from KwaZulu-Natal because of inter- and intra-political differences. We call for political tolerance in the province. We call on the Ministry of Police and state security to help stop this situation which has become the norm in KZN. In a separate but related matter, former ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Senzo Mchunu refuted claims circulating on social media that his car was shot at multiple times in the wake of Magaqa s death. He said that there was not an iota of truth in the allegation. There was nothing like that, Mchunu said. ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa on Monday sent the party s condolences to the Magaqa family. The ANC sends its deepest condolences to comrade Sindiso Magaqa s family. May they find solace in the knowledge that we share their painful loss and thank them for having lent the ANC and the country this incomparable son of the soil, he said.SIPHIWE MCHUNU AND BONOLO SELEBANO news@thenewage.co.za