FOR young males, it could be the unkindest cut of all. About 250 males died in South Africa from 2014 to last year as a result of complications arising from botched circumcisions during their initiation. Those who survive the mutilation face a further physical and psychological nightmare penis amputations arising from gangrenous infections. But now there is hope for them.Two years after receiving the world s first successful penile transplant, a South African man who also endured a botched circumcision and whose penis had to be amputated, is leading a normal life and is doing well. Stellenbosch University Prof Andre van der Merwe and his team performed the ground breaking operation at Tygerberg Hospital in 2014. In an article in medical journal The Lancet Van der Merwe said the transplant had restored the man s normal physiological functions . Now the 24-year-old man once again has a fully functioning appendage.Van der Merwe wrote that within three months of the surgery, the recipient was having regular sexual intercourse. Two years following the operation, the man s urine flow rate and erectile function were normal. The successful operation has now given hope and the chance of a normal life to hundreds of amputees. Penile mutilation is more prevalent in South Africa than elsewhere in the world due to complications from circumcisions performed as part of a traditional rite of passage on young men in certain cultures. Botched circumcisions have risen also because of a lack of expertise at unregulated and fly by night initiation schools trying to cash in on the cultural tradition. According to Van der Merwe, there is no formal record of the annual number of penile amputations due to traditional circumcisions, but one study reported up to 55 cases in the Eastern Cape alone.Experts estimate that as many as 250 partial and total amputations take place countrywide every year. Suicides are also reported because of f the psychological trauma of amputation.Van der Merwe, who heads the Department of Urology at Stellenbosch University s faculty of medicine and health sciences, said this first successful penile transplant was performed on a young man who had lost his penis from ritual circumcision.He suffered severe complications, his penis became gangrenous and had to be amputated in order to save his life. The penis was harvested from a donor whose family consented and transplanted it in a nine-hour operation on the recipient who is now three months after the operation doing well. Van der Merwe and his team at Stellenbosch University and Tygerberg Hospital performed a second successful penis transplant earlier this year. There was a colour discrepancy between the recipient and donor organ of the second penis transplant, which will be rectified with medical tattooing, Van der Merwe said. Van der Merwe said the patient was happy with the penis and leading a normal life with all the challenges of a normal life. He s happy to be a complete man again. The recipient has refused media contact out of fear of cultural persecution if identified. One was attempted in China in 2005, but surgeons had to remove the transplanted organ. It is believed that the transplant was unsuccessful due to psychological, rather than physical complications. Van der Merwe said the team performed the latest procedure more successfully in comparison to the first by creating a better blood supply and psychological support. The transplants are said to have numerous complications and challenges such as cost, lack of donors and matching of skin tones. The biggest challenge is organ donation. I think the lack of penis transplants across the world since we performed the first successful one in 2014, is mostly due to a lack of donors. It might be easier to donate organs that you cannot see, like a kidney, than something like a hand or a penis, Van der Merwe said. African indigenous expert Nobamba Zulu said: A penis is an important tool for reproduction. Africa started the transplants in ancient Egypt on mummified corpses. Zulu said there was nothing wrong with penis transplants from an African cultural perspective. I don t think transplants must be prevented but regulated and done legally in authorised health institutions, Zulu said.news@thenewage.co.za