THE deworming programme that has been launched by the education department in the province is set to take young people on a path to a healthier lifestyle.In partnership with the health department, Frances Baard district municipality and the Magareng local municipality launched the second deworming campaign at the Warrenton Public School in August.The National School Deworming Programme is the flagship of the Integrated School Health Programme. As part of this programme, a three-pronged approach (in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, (WHO) was adopted.This includes health education including the type of worms, how transmission is taking place, prevention of worms and hand washing integrated into the workbooks, regular deworming of children in schools and provision of adequate sanitation, safe water and the maintenance thereof to be provided to schools.Education MEC Martha Bartlett joined hands with mayor Buyiswa Ximba and local mayor Mahaleni to implement a successful programme set to benefit close to 150000 pupils between August and September. A healthy body cultivates a healthy mind. Through the Integrated School Health Programme of which the Deworming Campaign is the flagship programme, we will be able to ensure a long and healthy life for all our pupils, the departments said.During the launch, as a collective, the departments also handed over school shoes, uniforms and sanitary towels to deserving pupils at the Warrenton Public School. We certainly believe the health of our children is intrinsically linked to the improved pupil outcomes. In fact, as Mahatma Gandhi once put it succinctly: It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver, she said.The aim of the programme is to improve children s health, reduce health barriers to learning and assist pupils to stay in school and perform to the best of their abilities. The programme further intends to promote attitudes and behaviours that will positively impact the current and future health status of pupils. Overall the programme is designed to improve both the education performance and the health and well-being of our children. It seeks to address a range of health and social challenges that are faced by young people especially related to sexual and reproductive health, Bartlett said. The target is to reach all Grade R to Grade 7 pupils in quintile 1-3 primary schools. As we know, all these schools benefit from the National School Nutrition Programme.The provincial plan of the deworming programme says we will reach 144883 pupils in 415 schools and it will run from August 22 to September 27 in the Northern Cape. We have chosen Warrenton Public School for the provincial launch of the second de-worming programme as it will benefit the health of our pupils and contribute to the quality of education we provide in all our schools, the MEC said.The departments urged guardians to allow children to participate in the national programme. The National School Deworming Programme is a voluntary exercise aimed at improving the well-being of our pupils. We urge all parents and guardians to please sign the consent form and return it to the school. I must say, the programme proves beyond any reasonable doubt that indeed education is a societal issue, the MEC said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.zaa