THE provincial government will this year announce the pass rates in all grades for the first time. Premier Supra Mahumapelo made the announcement earlier this year during his state of the province address. For the first time our province will announce the pass rates in all public schools from grades 1 to 12, he said. Education expert Elias Mathipa said the public release of junior certificate and matriculation results was allowed in the past until the national body of the SRC campaigned against it. Releasing the results publicly encourages students to achieve better marks, Mathipa said. It shows the public which schools are performing better. It helps parents to be able to choose schools that are good for their children. It makes the schools that perform poorly to strive harder. Such schools attract sponsors, Mathipa said.However, he said this also had a negative side. Pupils who fail can be tempted to commit suicide, Mathipa said. Such schools and pupils want to hide poor performances. Mahumapelo said the province would introduce the OR Tambo top maths and science achievers for all Grade 12s in all village, township and small town schools to fulfil Tambo s wish to see the African child master science and maths . This OR Tambo initiative will launch the first group of pupils who will be products of what we call consistent push, a year-long dedicated strategy aimed at identifying and giving support throughout the year to all pupils from grades 9 to 12, with the possibility of placing struggling day pupils into boarding schools, in consultation with their families, for intensive support, Mahumapelo said.The premier said as part of this initiative, NGOs, retired professionals, university lecturers and other professionals would be recruited to provide extra classes at weekends, evenings, holidays and with cooperation of school governing bodies during dedicated school hour periods. We in the ANC, together with progressive forces in our broader alliance and society in general, believe the Constitution is the most progressive and revolutionary document to be used to effect fundamental change in this country, Mahumapelo said. Regrettably, the Constitution has been abused by a minority who run to the courts under the guise of protecting the Constitution when, in fact, they only seek to entrench their privileges and interrupt the transformation programme. We will, however, continue to defend their right to do so, Mahumapelo said. He said more than 20 years since democracy, black people still carried the heaviest burden of exclusion from sharing in the wealth generated by the economy despite the fact that many people provided the labour. CHARLOTE HLANGWANE rovinces@thenewage.co.za