Having reunited with Eric Tinkler at SuperSport United, Sifiso Myeni admitted that does not give him any reason to think he will be granted opportunities at the club.Myeni joined SuperSport on a season loan from Bidvest Wits and is reuniting with coach Tinkler after the two worked together in the past. The 29 year old said he will still need to prove himself to Tinkler by working hard at training if he is to get an opportunity to play. It s all about team work and not the individual, obviously me going there is about helping the team win more trophies, Myeni said. SuperSport are a winning team and I think for me it s a good move. I ll obviously be working with Tinkler who I know. But it doesn t mean that because I know the coach and I ve worked with him for many years, I can take my foot off the pedal. I still need to work hard. The former Orlando Pirates attacking midfielder also confirmed that there was interest from Cape Town City but nothing came of it and he decided to join SuperSport in the end. Yes, I think that was before the season started, I think we were in camp in Cape Town, Benni was interested. We spoke but nothing materialised and I ve now ended up going to SuperSport. Having made 10 appearances for the Clever Boys last season, Myeni feels he did fairly well and that he is now looking forward to regaining his form at SuperSport. I think I would take last season as a good one because I joined the team when they were already done with pre-season and I was late fitness-wise, Myeni said. I made sure that I played and I made a lot of assists in those games. I think, personally, I did my part in helping the team clinch the league trophy. It was not an issue that I played fewer games. I understood that the team was doing well and I wouldn t just walk into the team, thinking I would play all the games. I feel I ve done my part with Wits, and that s why the decision for me to go on loan to a team like SuperSport United was a little bit easier. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za