AS THE Southern Kings and Cheetahs rewrite South African rugby history to become the first sides to play in the Guinness Pro14 Championship, way more than just their rugby will be under scrutiny.The Kings, captained by Michael Willemse, will start their campaign with a clash against the defending champions, Welsh side Scarlets tomorrow, while Niell Jordaan s Cheetahs will take on Ulster tonight at 8.30pm in Belfast, Ireland.The move to the Pro14 has been seen and hailed as breaking the Super Rugby monopoly, while at the same time looking for other destinations where local sides can find competition and growth.To date, the move to take the Kings and Cheetahs out of Super Rugby, even though both sides performed far better than the lacklustre Bulls, has been looked at as an expensive solution to a Bulls problem that none was brave enough to tackle head on, going for the Kings and Cheetahs instead.This move has already started to hurt the Cheetahs in the Currie Cup, where they are doing well, heading into weekend fixtures as the team to beat. They now have to field a weakened side, without star players such as Makazole Mapimpi, Sergeal Pietersen, Rosko Specman and Cecil Afrika, giving the Sharks a glorious chance of winning the match to move to the top of the log.Though they are short of choices, the Cheetahs have decided to embrace the European challenge and so have the Kings. Kings coach Deon Davids said his side will have to be wary of the Scarlets and work hard to avoid a litmus test that awaits them. We had to have a look at them. They are the champion side. They have strength all over in their team and are a team that likes to play with ball in hand. They are quite dangerous if you concede turnovers against them and they have quite a good set piece. It will be an 80-minute battle, Davids said. We are in this now and we are excited to go and see where we are and what still needs to be done. We are going into this game confident in our abilities. We will see this as a good learning exercise and a good base of where we can start and continue our campaign going forward. It would be stupid to underestimate a team that remains the reigning champions of the competition. We need to be spot on, we need to be focused and we need to be switched on. We need not be afraid to impose ourselves in terms of what we need to do. The clash between the Kings and Scarlets in Llanelli tomorrow will kick-off at 8.30pm.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane