SCORING goals is one area Orlando Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic will have to place more focus on if his side is to do better than they did last season.Despite showing glimpses of improvement in their performances this season, scoring goals remains a problem for the Buccaneers. The goalkeeping department looks to be sorted following the arrival of Wayne Sandilands from Mamelodi Sundowns, while the defence has also been changed and has shown improvement.Sredojevic looks to have identified the problems of their awful previous season where they finished outside the top eight and conceded 40 goals in the process. The arrival of Sandilands has brought some stability at the back, while Sredojevic has decided to play Ntsikelelo Nyauza, Happy Jele, Gladwin Shitolo and Abbubakker Mobara at centre back. Innocent Maela and Mthokozisi Dube have operated from the left and right back positions and this has seen Bucs concede just once in four matches.In the strike department, the team seem to be overly reliant on Thamsanqa Gabuza for goals and the likes of Ayanda Nkosi and Thabiso Kutumela should chip in more. Gabuza has only scored one goal so far and has proven in the past seasons that he is not a player likely to score more than 10 goals a season. Sredojevic should be concerned that they are not scoring enough goals. Pirates have only scored three in four matches.He, however, feels his side can build on their good start this season after his side played to a goalless draw against Maritzburg United on Friday. Look, this wasn t an easy match by any means. It s no surprise United are where they are on the log table, Sredojevic said. Although I am happy with our general performance, I still believe there are areas we need to vastly improve on. Obviously with our next match coming up so soon, there s little you can do except try and and hope that the players are fresh for yet another challenge against Cape Town City. The Buccaneers will meet Cape Town City at FNB Stadium tonight looking to continue their unbeaten run this season.The Citizens will be looking to bounce back to winning ways after losing 2-0 to Kaizer Chiefs at home last week. This is a match which will also see City coach Benni McCarthy face his former team Pirates for the first time since he retired in 2013.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za