Things can only go on an upward spiral for television presenter, Tshego Mosupye, who recently won the MTV Base VJ Search.Speaking to The New Age, the 26 year old said his motivation is to continuously work on his craft. I just want to work on my craft and look back three months later and say I have really grown. It can only get better for me from here onwards. But first, I need to settle in with MTV and just learn as much as I can before thinking of other moves, he said.MTV Base VJ Search was is not Mosupye s first presenter search competition. He was also one of the many hopefuls who took their chance and entered SABC1 s Live Amp presenter search competition. I was one of the contestants for the Live Amp search a few years ago and I made the top 12 spot. I am grateful that I finally won with MTV Base. It came at the right time and I thank God for mapping this journey for me. I guess God had his way, because after the age of 26, it would have been difficult to make it, he said.Just under three months ago, the Pretoria-born Mosupye was an aspiring model and a fitness coach. He describes his journey to the win as amazing. I am slowly settling in. But I must say it has been an amazing feeling being part of the competition and I have learnt so much in a short space of time.I m learning with each day and for me the biggest lesson of all is the hard work that goes into preparing and shooting, which comes with spending anything from 10 to 12 hours on set, he said.During the course of the search, judges praised Mosupye s composure and poise as the qualities that earned him the spot, with the channel saying he maintained his cool during tough challenges as he stepped into first place over strong competition from more than 8000 hopefuls .As part of his win, he walked away with a 12-month contract with MTV Base as well as an Edgars Active voucher to the value of R20 000 and accessories from Jabari.Mosupye, who used to look up to the likes of Sizwe Dlomo and Siyabonga Ngwekazi, now he has the chance to mingle and make friends with the people who inspired him to take on a career as a television presenter. I have always wanted to be in entertainment from a young age and used to admire the work being done by Sizwe Dlomo and Siyabonga Ngwekazi. I also love fitness which helped me break free from my bout of depression. I read and I love creating and designing clothes, he said.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za