The residents in Vuwani vow to continue with the shutdown on Tuesday as residents demand an implementation of President Jacob Zuma s resolutions announced in May. The pro-Makhado task team spokesperson Nsovo Sambo said that following a meeting that took place on Monday, residents have decided to continue with the shut-down until their demands are addressed. The meeting happened indeed and it was resolved that communities will embark on an indefinite shutdown of services due to the lack of government in implementing the decision that was taken by the president, Sambo said. President Zuma pronounced in May after residents embarked on violent protests that the residents of Vuwani will temporarily receive services from the Vhembe district municipality while the demarcation board resolves the matter. However, Sambo says that this arrangement has not materialized. There is a traffic center that is not operating, the regional office of the municipality is not operating. &#8220;As per the agreement with the government, the traffic centre would be operated by the Department of Transport and the regional office would be operated by the Vhembe district or by Cooperative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (CoGHSTA). &#8220;There are issues of waste management which should be rendered by Environmental Affairs. Those are the things that we are talking about but which have not been implemented to this very same point, he said. Sambo added that they will be a meeting with the Limpopo provincial government on Tuesday to resolve the matter. Over 2000 matric learners missed their examinations yesterday due to the shutdown in the area as business and schooling are halted. The Department of Education in the province expressed their disapproval of school distributions due to protests. Vuwani shutdown will disrupt examsZuma to return to Vuwani for further talksEfforts to settle Vuwani problems Mahlobo must be held accountable for Vuwani Zuma declines addressing &#8220;unrepresentative&#8221; Vuwani meeting-TNA Reporter 