It s time for business to roll up its sleeves and invest in the country to keep the second-quarter GDP growth momentum going as long as possible, experts say.Stats SA on Tuesday officially confirmed that South Africa is out of recession after growing 2.5% in the second quarter, from a 0.75% contraction in the first quarter and 0.3% in the last quarter of last year. Several sectors, notably agriculture, recovered well in the second quarter and economists are saying both the government and the private sector must throw their weight behind these top performers to keep them growing.The largest positive contributor to growth in GDP in the second quarter was the agriculture, forestry and fishing sector. Agriculture, admittedly, recovered off a very low base following one of the worst droughts in South Africa s history. But mining, finance and business services also contributed to growth. Leading mining economist Mammokgethi Molopyane said business and government held the fate of the country in their hands. Business, as much as government, must now come forward with investment. It s important for the business sector to do their part to grow the economy, Molopyane said.Tandisiziwe Mahlutshana, marketing executive at PPS Investments, agreed. The largest 50 companies listed on the JSE are sitting on a cash pile of R1.4 trillion. By injecting some or all of this capital into the economy, the positive spin-offs, such as job creation and retail activity growth, would go a long way towards giving the economy the boost it needs. Questions were asked this week as to why the two most influential business organisations in the economy, Business Leadership SA (BLSA), and Business Unity SA (Busa), did not comment on the upbeat GDP growth numbers or how they planned to ignite the economy. In response, Busa CEO Tanya Cohen said the organisation applauded the recovery in the economy and that it demonstrated the need for South Africa to continue applying more effort towards building a transformed economy.BLSA, which also did not react immediately to the data, said they welcomed the positive news. Khotso Mothobi, an analyst, said it was unlikely that business would open its purse in an environment experiencing political tension. Unfortunately, political instability is a major stumbling block. Eskom chief economist Mandla Maleka said it was disturbing that business was reluctant to invest. Over the past seven quarters, fixed investment has registered positive growth rates. Savings are also strong in the business sector, and the borrowing cost regime is equally supportive therefore we would have expected business to invest strongly. The Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa said African governments needed to increase their investments in agriculture and rural infrastructure to boost growth and take a holistic approach to improving the business environment for the entire agrifood system.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za