The National Union of Metalworkers has accused the government of being scared of having the South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU) as part of National Economic Development Council (NEDLAC).On Friday, NUMSA together with several other SAFTU affiliated trade unions picketed outside the NEDLAC Annual Summit at Emperors Palace in Ekurhuleni. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the keynote address at the summit.&#8220;They are terrified of being confronted by a truly militant, independent trade union federation and that is why they only want to deal with COSATU and FEDUSA in NEDLAC. NEDLAC cannot claim to have consulted labour if SAFTU is not part of that structure. SAFTU is only 4 months old but it represents almost a million South African workers and their families. NEDLAC has no legitimacy if SAFTU is not part of that structure,&#8221; the union said in a statement.Numsa said they were also protesting against Ramaphosa for promoting policies which are hostile to workers such as the poverty National Minimum Wage and, for driving legislation to limit the right to strike.&#8220;NEDLAC is a statutory body which enables labour, business and other sectors of civil society to participate directly in the formulation of policy before it is presented to Parliament. It was at NEDLAC where the decision to impose a poverty wage of R20 per hour was taken with the help of sell out trade union federations like COSATU and FEDUSA. These federations continue to promote neo liberal economic capitalist policies, regardless of how damaging they are to workers.&#8221;The union has also labeled COSATU s support of the ANC as a betrayal of the working class. &#8220;The ANC has failed workers. It has embraced White Monopoly Capital and its goal is to protect and defend the wealth of the white minority, at the expense of the working class majority. The ANC needs the leadership of COSATU and FEDUSA to be weak so that they can keep using them to rubber stamp decisions and claim that they have the support of the working class. The adoption of the National Minimum Wage is proof of how far they are willing to go to betray the working class.&#8221;NUMSA says they are committed to working with SAFTU to fight the implementation of the National Minimum Wage to the bitter end. &#8220;Our campaign against NEDLAC and all its reactionary Capitalist forces has just begun.&#8221;&nbsp;