DEPUTY President Cyril Ramaphosa said the country had come from a terrible chapter of racial oppression and a segregated public health system to restore people s dignity through the provision of quality healthcare for all.He spoke at the opening of the new wing at Cecilia Makiwane Hospital in Mdantsane. Today is a moment of joy and pride not only for the people of Mdantsane, but for the rest of our beloved our country.The unveiling of the new wing of Cecilia Makiwane Hospital takes place during Heritage Month. We have dedicated this month to celebrate our liberation heritage, Ramaphosa said. He said in the liberation heritage route Cecilia Makiwane a pioneer in nursing, after whom the hospital was fittingly named. Not only was this outstanding daughter of Alice the first registered nurse in January 1908, she threw herself in the forefront of the first women anti-pass campaign in 1912 in the Free State. Fifteen years ago, our government introduced the Cecilia Makiwane Nurse s Recognition Award for distinguished healthcare professionals in her honour. We commend the province and social partners for ensuring the limited public money we have is prioritised to realise the Constitutional rights to life, health and dignity, he said. He said come rain or shine South Africa would have the inclusive National Health Insurance to ensure quality, safety and efficient health provision. This hospital is supported by an integrated system that will optimise efficiencies in the delivery of quality healthcare. The integrated system which exploits technological innovation will cut down patient waiting times, improve diagnosis and improve health outcomes.The hospital will provide support to districts and maternity units through telemedicine and outreach programmes by specialist teams.The investments in infrastructure to the tune of R1bn will support local economic development in the townships and local government efforts to improve community infrastructure, he said. We are on an unstoppable journey to implement the National Health Insurance (NHI).We have taken the right way to ensure that no South African is excluded from accessing dignified, quality health care.This world-class, tertiary hospital is an investment by our people to realise the NDP vision and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of universal healthcare coverage. Already, South Africa spends far above the recommended 5% by the World Health Organisation of its GDP in health.The public health system caters for more than 80% of the population. On the other hand, the private sector spends around 4.4% of GDP on health but only caters for around 16% of the population.These inequities are not only unjust, but are unsustainable and reflect old patterns of privilege. We will not fail in our efforts because Mdantsane inspires hope and triumph.No other place in the history of our country boasts more world boxing champions than Mdantsane. They fought way above their weight and achieved victory on behalf of our people, he said. The Presidency