APPLE is today expected to unveil its newest iPhones at its keenly anticipated media event. The event will be the first in the Steve Jobs Theatre at Apple s new spaceship campus in Silicon Valley, evoking the memory of the company s late cofounder and iconic pitchman. Reports says Apple will introduce three new iPhone models. The new iPhone would also need to set the bar in a market with premium Android-powered handsets priced much lower, an analyst said. Two new iPhone models are expected to be improved versions of the prior generation, with most of the dramatic changes built into a premium handset unofficially referred to by some as X but pronounced ten in honour of the anniversary. Some reports say the new iPhone will include a high-quality, edge-to-edge screen with a notch in the top for an extra camera supporting 3D facial recognition. Others speculate that the back of the new handset will be glass and will offer wireless charging. The most dramatic changes were expected in the premium model, which could go so far as to get rid of a home button that has been a main control feature since the iPhone debut. Flicking or swiping gestures could replace the home button function, enabling the handset face to appear almost all screen. With Apple set to unveil its newest iPhones, a key question for the California tech giant is whether it can recapture the magic from its first release a decade ago. Jobs introduced the first iPhone on January 9, 2007 and set the stage for mobile computing and an entire industry revolving around it. The first devices became an instant hit as they went on sale on June 29 of that year. Apple as usual has said little about the event in Cupertino. Invitations provided the date, time, location and a message that read let s meet at our place . The timing, however, is in sync with Apple s annual unveiling of new iPhone models and comes as rivals field fresh champions powered by Googlebacked Android software. The leaked dummy units suggest that Apple has added 1.1 inches which is a big jump from iPhone 7 s 4.7-inch display taking the new phone to 5.8-inches. The screen was uncovered by developer Steve Troughton-Smith. These are the metrics used by the status bar on the edge-to-edge iPhone, including notch height and ear width. Designers, have fun, tweeted Troughton-Smith. -INDIE BOYCE|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za