Despite the recent downgrade, South Africa is meeting investors, foreign governments and foreign ambassadors to proactively promote the country as an attractive investment destination, which is confirmed by the recently released AT Kearney investment index.Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said this as he welcomed the release of the 2017 AT Kearney Annual Foreign Investment Confidence Index. AT Kearney is a global management company. He said the index, entitled the Glass Half Full, ranks SA at position 25, a more realistic representation of the state and outlook of South Africa s economic prospects and investment landscape . South Africa returned to the index after a two-year absence.Davies says: Investors are convinced about the long-term investment prospects in South Africa. With sustained and continued improvements, South Africa is poised to lead one of the world s next manufacturing hubs . The country has performed extremely well compared to other African countries after having the third highest drop in investment levels in 2015, Unctad s World Investment Report says, which estimated a 38% increase in investment levels for 2016.Davies said South Africa s return to the index is remarkable and foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows are estimated at $2.4bn (R31bn), the AT Kearney index said. InvestSA on the other hand recorded an investment pipeline of investment projects at R58bn over the 2016/2017 financial year. Multinationals are expanding their presence in SA. For example, original equipment manufacturers in the automotives sector continue to invest in new five-year platforms and are embracing localisation and empowerment. Siemens has achieved a BEE level 2 status and has invested in a black industrialist company through a joint venture to manufacture transformers, Davies says.He expressed his appreciation for these kinds of investments, saying they are welcome and provide greater impetus to industrialising approach adding to productive capacity and creating employment. The quality and level of FDI inflow into the country is testament to the reforms and initiatives put in place by government to make South Africa an attractive investment destination. The One Stop Shop (OSS), which was launched last month is a focal point in government to shorten and simplify administrative procedures and guidelines for foreign companies wishing to invest in South Africa. It brings together key government role players dealing with issues from policy and regulation, permit and licensing, infrastructure and finance and incentives with a view to reducing lengthy bureaucratic procedures, reduce bottlenecks and to provide an enhanced aftercare service, Davies says. The OSS approach is supported by an inter-ministerial committee on investment, chaired by President Jacob Zuma. We have enhanced our investor facilitation service with a key focus on investor retention, expansion and aftercare. South Africa is and will always be open for investment. The index is a product of survey results based on global CEOs views regarding investment potential of various economies.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za