While Cosatu remains quiet on a looming meeting with President Jacob Zuma, it said removing Zuma from office was not the be-all and end-all of South Africa s issues.Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said that while he would safeguard the confidentiality of Cosatu s discussion with Zuma as a matter of principle , he said that despite Cosatu earlier calling for Zuma to step down, it believed that Zuma s removal from office was not a panacea for the country s social ills. Let s say the president listens to the call from civil society and resigns, the triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality will still be there. It s complicated, it goes beyond that, Dlamini said.He said ANC s internal ructions over its leadership battle was the most immediate matter of priority. We have raised these issues that a lack of cohesion in the government, the alliance and the ANC is the most immediate threat to the National Democratic Revolution. Dlamini s comments come against the background of ANC heavyweights having pulled their gloves off, using memorial services and marches to condemn one another over questions surrounding the leadership of Zuma.Added to the mix was yesterday s national day of action which saw thousands of marchers in Pretoria to demonstrate against Zuma.At the same time the ANC celebrated the 75th birthday of Zuma in Soweto.Dlamini, making reference to the ANC s December elective conference, reminded the ruling party that it should find ways of constructively managing its leadership battle, lest it fuelled further division and strife within the party. The organisation is 105 years old and carries the necessary tools and experience on many issues, including the transition of leadership. We call on the ANC to demonstrate that it is a leader of society and it s able to manage a simple issue of who is elected at its December elective conference. Leaders must educate the lower structures of its importance. Dlamini, when asked why Cosatu did not participate in yesterday s protests calling for Zuma s removal, despite it having made a similar call, said Cosatu believed the opposition benches couldn t care less about Zuma, for them the end game was the demise of the ANC. We don t think that all that is happening is purely about the leadership of the president. It s a conglomeration of different forces. They want to remove the ANC from power and they ll use any issue, including Zuma, to achieve their goal. People must not get confused and become collateral damage in the process. The fight should be about changing the patterns of ownership. Meanwhile, opposition parties haven called for a new date to hold a motion of no confidence in Zuma debate, which is scheduled for next Tuesday.This relates to the Constitutional Court deciding to hear the United Democratic Movement s case for a secret ballot vote.While the debate is scheduled for Tuesday, the court has granted parties involved to file their opposing papers until Friday, April 21.BONOLO SELEBANO