In a bid to reduce the high unemployment rate in KwaZulu-Natal, the department of economic development, tourism and environmental affairs has placed the development of township economies at the apex of its list of priorities.Department spokesperson Siyabonga Maphumulo said they had put in place a number of interventions to assist small businesses and to accelerate township economic development. As a result, during the 2016-17 financial year, more than 2000 small businesses were assisted through various interventions and programmes. In this regard, 692 small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) received training in business management skills, entrepreneurship, applied innovative thinking, principles of costing and pricing and business plan formulation. We provided a total of 367 SMMEs and cooperatives with business loans under one of our strategic financial tools, the KZN Enterprise Development Fund. A total of 223 groups/associations were assisted to register with Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) as cooperative entities, while 364 individuals were assisted to register their business entities with CIPC, he said.Maphumulo said as a result a total of 2 396 jobs were created. Going forward, in the 2017-18 financial year, the department will support 2 330 small businesses with various interventions and programmes. We will assist them in training, mentorship, funding, incubation and business advisory services. These interventions will also assist the department to boost struggling small businesses in townships, Maphumulo said.Despite making substantial gains in addressing unemployment levels in the province, it remains high and requires greater efforts to meet community expectations.Last year, the province s unemployment rate regressed to a high of 23.7%, slightly below the national unemployment rate of 27.1%. Boosting small businesses in the township has been touted as the answer to the province s unemployment and inequality problems. In his state of the province address, Premier Willies Mchunu committed to ensuring township entrepreneurs received the support they needed. He said they had adopted a business support, retention and extension programme, which is fully integrated into the radical economic transformation programme. We need to continually interrogate our procurement practices to promote opportunities for local small contractors, SMMEs and cooperatives owned by black African people. We acknowledge that this must not be done at the expense of quality and therefore training and development of SMMEs is a priority. It is against this background that we have embarked upon Operation Vula to formulate a comprehensive business and operational plan for the implementation to open up economic opportunities for mass based social enterprises and cooperatives, led by black people in particular, to benefit from capital intensive state led infrastructure programmes, as well as from the state buying power, Mchunu said.A 2014 World Bank study, examining the unique economic challenge of South Africa s townships, found that about half of South Africa s urban population lives in townships and informal settlements, accounting for 38% of working-age citizens, but was also home to nearly 60% of the country s unemployed population.The study said the country s growth potential lies in its townships and in promoting convergence with the formal advanced parts of the economy.TNA REPORTERprovinces@thenewage.co.za