Shattered confidence, poor luck or simply a lack of commitment? These and many other factors could explain the sticky spell Orlando Pirates are going through.But coach Kjell Jonevret has refused to put the team s poor form down to a lack of confidence or a lack of commitment from his players. Yet in the same breath, he could not provide clear answers as to why his team has been battling to bounce back from a dip in form, underlined by an alarming run of 13 league matches without victory over a four-month period.The Buccaneers face Free State Stars in their Nedbank Cup last 16 encounter at James Motlatsi Stadium this week, in a second clash between the two sides in as many days. More concerning for Jonevret should be that there is a growing sense among Pirates fans that the team is not showing signs of improvement. I can t talk negatively about the players. We ve talked about how we play, how we defend and how to make it difficult for our opponents, Jonevret said. In our last game, we made a few mistakes, stupid mistakes that we haven t done in the previous game in defence. The results have been poor, the defence has been poor. Now it s a little step back again, if not to start all over.But we have to remind each other what we did well in the first four games we played. But it s nice to play the same team again because I think the players in the locker room afterwards felt a bit ashamed and I think they might be looking for revenge. Stars edged Bucs 3-2 in the league and Jonevret admitted his opponents were more motivated. There is a difference between wanting to win and really wanting to win.They (Stars) were good the last time and really wanted to win. But we ve talked about it, about how to behave and how to be professional. If you play for Pirates you have to be proud. I saw a few clips from last season. I can see there are a lot of players that left.There is a reason Pirates are 11th in the league. And if we want to be up there in the future we have to look at the entire squad. Interestingly, Jonevret also seemed to question the quality of his squad. We have 30 players out here, but I m not sure we have 30 quality players. -Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za