Once in a while, a South African emerges to put the country on the international map.But not too many citizens, let alone Africans, make history in US s Major League Baseball (MLB), a sport considered a domain of Americans.Yet Gift Ngoepe has done just that, playing his first game for the Pittsburgh Pirates on Wednesday, succeeding where thousands of local American players haven t.The 27-year-old Ngoepe entered the game against the visiting Chicago Cubs in the fourth inning to make his debut.When Ngoepe took to the field to play second base, Pirates catcher Francisco Cervelli and third baseman Josh Harrison each took turns holding their hands up to his chest as if to monitor the rookie s heartbeat.In the bottom half of the fourth, Ngoepe hit a single up the middle off Cubs left-hander Jon Lester.His first trip to the bases was short-lived, however, as two batters later, Pirates shortstop Jordy Mercer hit an inning-ending double play.Ngoepe finished the game 1-for-2 with a single, walk and strikeout and the Pirates prevailed 6-5.What a moment. pic.twitter.com/59UyHlrdz3 Pirates (@Pirates) April 27, 2017 It s a dream come true for me because it s been my dream since I was a 10-year-old boy, but it also means so much to the people of South Africa and baseball in Africa, Ngoepe said before the game. Baseball is still very much in the development stages (in Africa), and hopefully this gets more people interested in the sport. Ngoepe was still turning out for Triple-A Indianapolis one of the Pirates feeder teams when manager Andy Barkett arrived. They re now looking for the player from Africa, Barkett said.Every single teammate cheered because they knew the sweat and tears it took for Ngoepe to get this chance.Ngoepe, who was born in Polokwane, fell in love with baseball at an early stage.His mother, Maureen, was a clubhouse attendant at Randburg s Mets club where they lived in a small room in the clubhouse.Before her death in 2013, Ngoepe promised his mother he d make her proud one day. After being invited to a MLB academy in Italy, he was snapped up by the Pirates.But it took him nine years in the lower leagues called the minor leagues, in America to work his way up.It was worth the wait. It doesn t matter where you come from. No matter where you are, who you are, you can still make it, Ngoepe told various news outlets yesterday. It was a long road. It was a long journey. I kept with it. There were a few times I wanted to stop. It s the people who are behind you that keep you going every single day. That kind of kept me fighting. It s my ninth year and I ve made it to the big leagues. On debut against the Chicago Cubs, Ngoepe enjoyed some success, recording a hit and a run as a pinch hitter. And this for a guy who isn t known as a hitter (he plays as an in-fielder). It s a fabulous organisational win for everybody, Pirates manager Clint Hurdle said. I would love for him to have a dollar for everybody who s looked at him and said he ll never make it. He s just continued to press on and play and probably many times believed when not a whole lot of other people did. I believe this is a man, as I told him, I said you can either be a guy that s going to get called up when people get hurt, or you can put a game plan together on offence and you can come up and play another 10 years in the big leagues, Hurdle said.With stars David Freese and Adam Frazier both injured, Ngoepe should see playing time for the Pirates.-Staff Reporter&nbsp;