Tributes continue to pour in for Ontlametse Phalatse, a teen who had been suffering from Progeria. Rest In Peace my love. You have taught me sooooooo much about life and having presence. Heaven is blessed right now. You gave us the bed you can be sooo we can realize the best in us, your soul rose beyond any stigma and isolation. I am glad I met you I love you! Ontlametse heaven couldn&#39;t wait for you go home my love. @ntlamiA post shared by Bujy Bikwa ka Thandi (@bujy_bikwa) on Apr 11, 2017 at 11:19pm PDT #RipOntlametse thank you for inviting me to your home, your school and thank you for teaching me what abundance means! You lived your life to the fullestA post shared by Tbo Touch (@iamtbotouch) on Apr 12, 2017 at 12:55am PDT I woke up from a terrible nightmare &amp; I knew death had come, my heart pounding in fear I fell to my knees &amp; started praying. I kept asking myself who Lord, but I knew I had to focus on the prayer. I recall this feeling it&#39;s happened before, I tried to fall asleep again and woke up to the terrible news, the passing of our dearest Ontlametse Phalatse. My angel you may have not known us, maybe through the virtual passages of instagram you did where I would randomly see your engagement but we knew you. Our family knew you and you were our inspiration and light. I was away and if there was someone that was in my thoughts and was with me it was you. You see Ntlami you lived a life of purpose and you had the ability to touch lives. It&#39;s not how long we live our lives, it&#39;s what we do and the number of lives we touch when we are still living. Rest In Peace sweet angel you are home now. Goodbyes are not forever. #RIPntlamiA post shared by Nandipha (@nanzyee) on Apr 12, 2017 at 1:06am PDTThe 18-year-old died at Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital in Ga-Rankuwa outside Pretoria on Tuesday night.Phalatse was one of two girls living with Progeria in South Africa a rare genetic condition that causes rapid aging.Her death comes shortly after she met President Jacob Zuma at his official residence ahead of her birthday which was on March 25.During the visit, President Zuma stated that the Jacob G Zuma Foundation would work with the Phalatse Trust to grant her other wishes which included a home transport and improved medical care.President Zuma said he is saddened by the passing of Phalatse. She and her mother Bellone Phalatse, who shares her birthday with President Zuma, invited them to join him during the celebrations on his 75th birthday.&#8220;Our lives were most touched by meeting Ontlametse last month. She was very special indeed. I was impressed by her sharp intellect, warm personality, brilliant ideas and her determination to use her condition to motivate others that they can achieve their goals regardless of any challenges. A brave young fighter has fallen.May her spirit inspire all others living with disabilities or facing any difficulty, to soldier on as she did and live life to the fullest. We are really proud of her. We wish to convey our utmost condolences to her mother, her whole family and the Ontlametse Phalatse Trust for this sad loss. May her soul rest in eternal peace,&#8221; said President Zuma.President Zuma also stated that he remains committed to fulfilling his undertaking to help the family with a house according to Ontlametse&#8217;s wishes.-TNA Reporter 