South Africa s mining production in February surprised on the upside as it lifted further where it left off in January ,increasing by 4.6% year-on-year, following a 1.4% year-on-year rise previously and far better compared to the manufacturing sector which continues to nose dive.Stats SA data shows the two main positive contributors were platinum group metals, which rose significantly by 47.2% and iron ore up by a staggering 20.9%, while coal and gold disappointed as they dropped 9.4% and 16.8% respectively. Mining is likely to lift GDP numbers for the first quarter of this year, as manufacturing continues to contract heavily, falling in two consecutive months.SA manufacturing data, which was released a day before mining, declined more than expected in February as production slumped in the first two months of the year, with a disappointing 0.4% month-on-month, after a revised decline of 0.6% in January. Given the latest production in the mining sector, it is expected to make a positive contribution to the first quarter GDP numbers of 2017, Investec economist Kamila Kaplan said. This will serve to offset some of the expected drag from the manufacturing and retail sectors, she said. Both the manufacturing production and retail sales updates so far for the first quarter of 2017 suggest these sectors could detract from GDP, she said. While mining output declined by 4.9% year-on-year last year, the sector is expected to recover this year, aided by the lift in commodity prices, Kaplan said. However, the extent of recovery in mining production will likely be hampered by policy uncertainty and regulatory concerns as well as elevated operating costs, she said. These considerations have contributed to the contraction in mining sector investment. Investment contracted by 3.8% yearon-year in 2016 following a decline of 1.0% in 2015, she said.On the other side, job losses in mining industry slowed down last year, while production improved during first two months of this year, according to latest data released by the South African Chamber of Mines. According to the data, job losses in the mining sector have slowed down substantially compared to two years ago, where the mining industry shed almost 50 000 jobs from 2012 to 2015, most of which were in the gold and platinum sectors.Henk Langenhoven, economist at the SA Chamber of Mines, said notwithstanding the general uncertainty about the world economy and the direction and sustainability of commodity prices as well as the domestic cost and policy pressures, it does seem as if green shoots of improvements during this year are there to see if one cares to look carefully. The latest data confirms the disappointments of 2016, but similarly show signs of a better 2017, albeit diverse, Langenhoven said. 701316-TNA Reporter 