It s hard to believe, but Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has for the first time spoken of his admiration for Kaizer Chiefs. Mosimane expressed his praise following his side s 1-0 victory over SuperSport United, which keeps the Brazilians within touching distance of PSL log leaders Cape Town City and Chiefs.Sundowns captain Hlompho Kekana got his head to a stunning Teko Modise free kick to beat Ronwen Williams and hand Sundowns their second win over their crosstown rivals in seven days. For a while, Mosimane consistently made reference to Orlando Pirates, based on their CAF Champions League pedigree, giving an indication that he one day might find himself in the dugout of the 1995 African champions.In a surprising twist, Mosimane has spoken of how he envies Chiefs, saying he too wants his side to win five matches in a row in the same manner that Steve Komphela s men have recently managed. I envy Kaizer Chiefs. They have won five games in a row. We want to copy them. Five in a row puts you in a seriously good position. We are positioning ourselves to put stress on the rest of the clubs (in the league chase), Mosimane said.But it was not long until he changed his tune, claiming that one of their wins would not have happened had one of his players, Soumahoro Bangaly, not scored an own goal when the two teams met on the first day of the month. But maybe it is time for others to draw and for us to win. We have even scored goals for people, handing them wins. It is our time now. The slump has passed. We want draws to go to other people. I have had my time with draws and injuries. Others can have them now. The Brazilians will not be in action this weekend as their next league fixture is on Tuesday against Ajax Cape Town at Loftus Versfeld Stadium. The reigning PSL and African champions will want to put one past the Urban Warriors. Fourth-placed Downs trail second-placed Bidvest Wits by a single point with both teams having played 22 games, while Cape Town City are top of the log with 46 points, having played two more matches.-Mmasekepe Matsabane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za