The ANC Youth League in the eThekwini Region has referred Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to report any wrongdoing and corrupt activities he is aware of to the Directorate for Priority Crime investigation (Hawks).This comes after Ramaphosa, who while addressing a Chris Hani memorial lecture in Uitenhage, Eastern Cape on Sunday, said that a said if left unchecked, corruption and factionalism within the ruling party would expose it to the threat of losing power in 2019.Ramaphosa also reportedly made the allegation that there are &#8220;people that carry brown envelopes full of cash going around buying votes for the upcoming national conference of the ANC.&#8221;&#8221; The ANC Youth League calls upon the hawks to immediately make themselves available to Mr Ramaphosa in order for this critical piece of information to be with the authorities for investigation and possible arrest.&#8221;&#8220;We certainly hope Mr Ramaphosa will find time to forward this information because failure to do so in terms of the provisions of the law may attract criminal charges against him.&#8221;The eThekwini ANCYL added that in terms of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act 12 of 2004, Ramaphosa had a duty to report any wrongdoing he has knowledge of.&#8220;The ANC Youth League regards these allegations as serious and believes that no one including Mr Ramaphosa will use knowledge of such for political expedience. The law must be seen to be upheld as per the oath of office taken by all those in official positions.&#8221;This is not the first time that talks of brown bags being used to buy support has irked the ANCYL.Earlier in April, former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was forced to abandon his speech at a memorial service for late struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada after he was heckled by ANCYL members.Gordhan&#8217;s comments on corruption angered ANCYL supporters who then proceeded to prevent him from continuing with his speech. We know that there is no other organisation in South Africa that can deliver the promise of a non-racial nonsexist, democratic South Africa Gordhan said. Because you see comrades two of us or any group of us can make a deal today. Somebody will pass on a nice bag of money we all share the money and we say we now have unity because we won t fight because we all have a bit of money, said GordhanMeanwhile, speaking on Sunday the ANC s Deputy President voiced his support for a judicial inquiry into allegations of State capture. State capture must be laid to rest. We gossip about it. We say there s an elephant in the room but we don t talk about it. Allegations that individuals exercise influence in appointments should be of grave concern to the ANC. We must be honest and brave enough to confront state capture. I support a judicial commission of enquiry. It is the truth that will set us free, said Ramaphosa.-TNA Reporter