While social grant beneficiaries who receive their money through the banks are happy to have received their monies, there is still insecurity by those receiving the money through pay points.Those who received pay-outs through the banks say they are happy that they received their social grants on time and as promised.Gladys Kock, 81, from Galeshewe said she has yet to receive her money. I go to pay points but I m worried that there might be a glitch in the system. Anyway, some of my peers say they received their money, so that gives me a little more confidence, she said.Another pensioner, Maku du Toit, 75, said she received her money on time. I was initially worried but I m not anymore. At the end of the day, it doesn t matter how the money gets to me, I just want it in my bank account, she said. We all have grandchildren and the social grant helps a lot, she said.Meanwhile, social development spokesperson Lumka Oliphant said the 2.6 million beneficiaries will be receiving their social grants. The government is pleased to announce that social grants payments are under way across the country for beneficiaries who receive their grants through ATMs and merchants. At 10am, 2.6 million beneficiaries had already accessed their grants, Oliphant said. Beneficiaries are encouraged to contact the Sassa call centre for any enquires on0800601011. So far, more than 1500 queries have been handled, she said.Oliphant said the old-age grant would increase by R90 to R1600 for pensioners over the age of 60, and R1620 for those over 75 while the disability and care dependency grants also increase by R90 to R1600 a month.She said the foster care grants increased by R30 to R920 a month.The child support grant increases by R20 to R30 a month. The government remains committed to improving the living conditions of poor, vulnerable and underprivileged South Africans. The social assistance programme remains an important safety net for millions, the Minister of Social Development, Bathabile Dlamini, said.Grants applications approvals have improved from 90 days to a day at certain offices.NOMUSA MVUBUnomusam@thenewage.co.za