TWO men from the Eastern Cape overcame major hurdles to be among the first cohort of blind students to graduate from the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU). Avuyile Jeke who is pursuing a Postgraduate Certificate in education and BTech public management student Lubabalo Sapepa, both 24, also prevailed against the odds of lacking funds.They described their academic journey as an unforgettable experience. Jeke and Sapepa, who began their studies at the University in 2014, were part of the group of students initially not admitted to the University due to a lack of adequate faculties to accommodate completely blind students.NMMU s Disabilities Unit has since vastly improved its facilities, having worked closely with organisations working with the blind in developing comprehensive support for the students. On Friday their parents and siblings watched them become the first in their families to graduate. Mount Frere-born Jeke, who was born partially blind and gradually lost his sight completely, is receiving a general BA degree and dreams of teaching disabled children and contributing to bettering their lives. It has not been an easy road, but I have always been determined to push through.I m the first in my family to graduate. I m my sibling s role model, and a trailblazer who is not afraid to break barriers, he said. My motto throughout school was I ve started and I m moving forward and now that I have finished the first step of the journey, I m determined to continue as far as possible. I felt called to teaching and believe I can use my talent and abilities to make a meaningful contribution to bettering the lives of disabled children.I want to teach and show them that a disability is not a hindrance. Sapepa, who comes from the Upper Ngqwara village in Mqanduli, said he could not believe that he would be graduating. I m very excited to be graduating and I m proud that I will be the first in my family to do so, he said. I was fortunate to secure financial aid to study. Sapepa said despite not having yet secured funding for his BTech public management studies, he was forging ahead and was confident that something will come up . The pair joined the university after matriculating from Mthatha s Efata School for the Blind in 2013. Acting senior manager in the disabilities unit, Ruth Sauls, reflected on what she described as an initially overwhelming moment filled with trepidation and uncertainty . It s been a learning curve for all of us and we are proud to witness and salute graduandi, Jeke and Sapepa, she said. Estelle Broekhuizen, who heads up NMMU s Braille transcription services, recalled how the students started their university success story the minute they arrived in a taxi from Mthatha. A big thing that I ll always remember, is the first year nervous moments of uncertainty and expectation. It s with a tear that I say a hearty congratulations and sincere thank you to these students who are now celebrating their big day. SIYA MTI