The rand continues to surprise on the upside resisting against all odds since the Cabinet reshuffle and downgraded to junk status by credit rating agencies. The local currency opened trading yesterday at R13.40/$, the lowest level seen so far this month since the recall of former minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy, Mcebisi Jonas.The recent junk status also did not devalue the currency as much as was expected. Although the currency lost about 12% of its value, the reality is that it is slowly recouping losses as it gets stronger and is poised to strengthen even further this week. Financial indices on the JSE All Share index, especially the banking shares have been seen to be making strong comebacks, with banks such as Standard Bank, Nedbank and others making some significant gains.At lunch time yesterday, the rand rebounded strongly setting new records at 0.18% firmer to trade stronger at R13.37/$, another lowest level seen this month and also proving many critics wrong. Financial indices were also firmer at 0.56%. The usual pattern is for strong rand gains to follow a fallout. If things were usual we would simply suggest going with the trend, looking for rand gains to generate further gains. But fundamentally the rand seems remarkably strong already, John Cairns, currency strategist at RMB said. The rand has now unwound almost exactly one third of its losses. Total rand losses of a mere R1 seem remarkably limited given all that has happened. Foreign capital inflows last week were only moderate but remain the key backing to this resilience. Cairns said the rand gains had come despite sovereign risk indicators remaining unchanged at elevated levels.Some market commentators said the recent strong rand somehow has proved politics critics wrong and should bring a smile to the face of the new finance minister. All appeared to be fine despite recent noises regarding the Cabinet reshuffle and two downgrades by S&amp;P and Fitch ratings agencies which shot SA into junk status territory.The new Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, told local investors last week he would meet ratings firm Moody s this week in a bid to persuade it he will stay on the path of fiscal discipline and avoid the third junk status downgrade. At same time, the rand has also ignored a series of protest marches last week demanding President Jacob Zuma step down and also ignored different views by SA business lobby groups on the recent developments.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za