A 26-YEAR-OLD woman will appear in the Dutywa Magistrate s Court today to face charges of concealment of birth. The woman had been pregnant, but her brother noticed her stomach had gone flat without her going to hospital to give birth.When she was questioned about the whereabouts of the baby, she could not provide answers. The brother of the suspect reported the matter to Dutywa police station. When police arrived at the home, they found the foetus inside the pit toilet, police spokesperson Capt Jackson Manatha said. In another incident in Dutywa, police arrested a 21-year-old woman for allegedly killing her brother.The two quarrelled over the memory card of a cellphone on Sunday afternoon in Gwadana village. The suspect is alleged to have drawn a knife and stabbed her brother in his upper body. The deceased died instantly, Manatha said. The deceased was identified as 28-year-old Sonwabile Zide. The woman appeared in court yesterday on a murder charge. In Mthatha, a man was sentenced to life imprisonment for the rape and murder of two women.The Mthatha High Court found 33-year-old Sthembele Ganda guilty of raping, robbing and killing Liziwe Tom, 24, and Qukezwa Tom, 77, in 2012. He was also sentenced to eight years for the attempted murder of a child who was present during the gruesome killings in Zolo village, Ngqamakhwe. The motive for the crimes was robbery.Ganda was under the impression that the deceased persons had money as he saw them coming from a local shop, Manatha said. He was sentenced to five years for housebreaking, eight years for attempted murder, 10 years for robbery, 42 years for the two murders and life imprisonment for rape. The sentences will run concurrently.In Cradock, Sinothando Ndwandwa, 21, was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment by the regional court for robbing a seven-year-old child of R300 and for another robbery, which he committed while on bail. He stole a cellphone from the victim and stabbed him with a knife. The sentences are to run concurrently.The investigating officer in the case was Det-Const Siyabonga Ntsimango. Col John Titi, the station commander of Cradock police station welcomed the sentences that were handed down by the court and said these would serve as a warning to all criminals that the SAPS was serious in its fight against crime, police said.SIYA MITI