The US has declared war on countries, including South Africa, it says are involved in dumping, or illegally subsidising imports of steel, chemicals and other products. Investigations have been opened following an announcement by the US commerce department vowing to “no longer be taken advantage of, or cheated, through illegal subsidies and market manipulation”. The department has warned that it will act aggressively against those countries that “mock the trade laws” through dumping. Dumping implies that manufacturers are exporting products to another country at a price either below the price charged in their home market – or below its cost of production, with the sole purpose to drive out competition and increase its market share. The dumping probe affects imports from South Africa, Belarus, Italy, South Korea, Russia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates and Britain, while the subsidisation probe covers those from Italy and Turkey, the department said. These strong words from the US commerce department mean that South Africa and the other named countries face heavy scrutiny of every product exported “to identify and study the imbalance” of its trade relationships with the US. If South Africa is found guilty among other countries of illegal subsidies and dumping, the country faces hefty consequences. Its steel industry stands in a delicate place, with the industry bleeding jobs and suffering financial and production losses as market prices continue to collapse. Local steel producer Arcelormittal South Africa has lodged several complaints with the government highlighting cheap steel imports from China, priced below local production costs, as the primary reason for difficult trading conditions in South Africa. The SA government has impose a 10% tariff on steel imports to protect the local industry. The Steel and Engineering Industries Federation of Southern Africa said that the industry was at risk of shedding 200000 jobs due to global over-supply of steel. Arcelormittal said that although imports have declined slightly from 2015 levels, they are still high despite the 10% duties imposed. “Nearly 1.2 million tons were imported into the country last year reflecting the need to safeguard measures for primary steel manufacturers to address the surge in imports.” Arcelormittal entered into an agreement with the Department of Trade and Industry in February on pricing guidelines for the company’s steel products. This comes after years of a prolonged negotiation period to set guidelines. The company said fair pricing principles for flat steel products had been finalised and were set to be implemented. The US has also vowed to act against unfair practices and collect billions of dollars in anti-dumping and countervailing duties to impose pursuant trade judgments in favour of US industry. It says it is investigating more than $14bn (R186bn) worth of dumped or illegally subsidised imports of steel, chemicals, and other products brought into the US. It has also issued final determinations and imposed duties on imports of steel and other products valued at over $2bn, including steel from China. “There is no reason why the least protectionist country in the world has the largest trade deficit, while other countries are highly protectionist and have huge trade surpluses. “This cannot continue. We can no longer afford to be ignorant or naive in the aggressive global marketplace and there is no reason why we should be forced to single-handedly absorb the $500bn trade surplus of the rest of the world,” the commerce department said. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za