The ANC Youth League yesterday accused deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa, of opportunism for using a memorial lecture in honour of slain South African Communist Party (SACP) stalwart Chris Hani, as a launching pad for his leadership campaign in the ANC.The league s secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza condemned Ramaphosa s use of a Chris Hani memorial lecture at the weekend in Uitenhage as part of his campaign trail ahead of the ruling party s December elective conference. He used a memorial platform meant to lecture and teach us about the life and times of a comrade to bash the ANC and portray it in a bad light, making unfounded allegations, Nzuza said. How do you talk about people in the ANC having brown bags of money and you don t provide proof? To say that the ANC is corrupt is wrong and disturbing. Nzuza s comments come on the back of Ramaphosa s address at a Chris Hani memorial lecture in the Eastern Cape. At the lecture, Ramaphosa decried corruption and vote-buying in the ANC.He said: Today, money in bags and envelopes have become big. As we head to conference, money is used to buy votes. It is for this that Nzuza escalated his war of words with Ramaphosa. He is ill-disciplined. Comrades who launch campaigns portraying the ANC in a bad way and then say they are going to save the ANC, are unacceptable, he said.Nzuza had more words for the SACP and Cosatu. He accused the ANC s alliance partners of fanning the flames of factionalism in the ruling party. The SACP is no longer a vanguard of the working class. They are a factional class in the alliance. Cosatu no longer talks about the struggles of workers, they want to talk about who should lead the ANC, he said. Why should they dictate to us? The SACP is a bunch of quibblists who argue about everything even squabble over positions. Meanwhile, the ANCYL in eThekwini urged Ramaphosa to forward his knowledge of corruption in the ANC to the Hawks. The ANCYL calls upon the Hawks to immediately make themselves available to Ramaphosa in order for this critical piece of information to be with the authorities for investigation and possible arrest. We certainly hope Ramaphosa will find time to forward this information because failure to do so in terms of the provisions of the law may attract charges against him. The ANCYL in eThekwini also slammed Ramaphosa for using the matter for partisan ends.bonolos@thenewage.co.za