It goes without saying that short-distance athletes will dominate proceedings at the keenlyawaited SA Senior Athletics Championships this weekend. As is the norm in major athletics events, the spotlight often falls mainly on the sprinters and it will be no different as the country s top athletes vie for dominance in Potchefstroom tomorrow and on Saturday.But Olympic silver medallist Luvo Manyonga will certainly not lurk in the shadows of the likes of Wayde van Niekerk and Caster Semenya. The 26-year-old long jump specialist bettered his Olympics personal best of 8.37m with a new South African and continental record of 8.62m at the Gauteng North provincial track and field championships in Pretoria last month.With his first attempt, Manyonga soared to an impressive 8.62m, this after he began his season with a leap of 8.46m at the ASA Speed Series in Bloemfontein earlier in the season. With one of the longest leaps in world athletics seen in years, Manyonga soared into a tie for 12th place in the global all-time rankings, as he also moved closer to the 8.95m record set by American Mike Powell in Tokyo back in 1991.He immediately declared his intention to soon break Powell s record and it may well be this weekend. It has been way too long since somebody has come close to jumping 9m, Manyonga said. It is something I want to rectify. I know that I m capable of jumping much further, but I don t want to set a date to when I m going to do so. All I m prepared to say is that no record can last forever. I fully realise this record is going to be improved at some stage. Manyonga has also beat three-time Olympian Khotso Mokoena s previous mark, set in Madrid eight years ago, by a massive 12cm.In a video he posted on social media yesterday, the quick-footed Manyonga could be seen flying forward before landing adroitly during a training session. Polishing off &#8230; South Africa are you ready? he said on Twitter. Nevertheless, he faces serious challenges from Zarck Visser, whose personal best is 8.41m and Ruswahl Samaai, who also competed at the Rio Olympics.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za