Universities and other institutions of higher learning will receive a massive R7bn for building infrastructure in the next two years.Most of the country s nine provinces will receive substantial funding for student housing, laboratories, communications technology and other essential facilities, as well as maintenance and the further expansion of the universities. Minister of Higher Education and Training Blade Nzimande said yesterday that R1bn a year was earmarked for the new Mpumalanga university and the Sol Plaatje University in the Northern Cape.He said none of the money would go towards repairing or replacing buildings damaged and vandalised by protesters, as this is being dealt with through other means . Nzimande said a further R2.5bn in the next five years has been targeted at the historically disadvantaged universities so that they can realise their full academic potential and shake off their historic image as the academic orphans of apartheid . He said: We have opened a major route to empowerment through knowledge and skills which can benefit both individuals and the economy. But access is just one side of the coin, we have always been aware that we must strengthen the institutions, not least by increasing our infrastructure spending. Investment in infrastructure, including teaching and research spaces, equipment and conducive student living environments, is key to ensuring that universities can deliver on their empowerment mandate, the minister said.This approach required a particular commitment to improving living and learning conditions in the historically disadvantaged institutions. The announcement builds on the progress achieved since 2007 through the department s infrastructure and efficiency grant with R14.87bn spent on priority areas in the past 10 years. Priority continues to be given to the education sector centred on the technical and vocational education and training (TVET) colleges, he said. The National Skills Fund has committed R2.5bn towards construction of new TVET college campuses and the refurbishment of two existing campuses. The R2.1bn announced yesterday that it will help provide an additional 200 000 beds at universities. The R2.5bn historically disadvantaged institutions development grant to be disbursed over the next five years, will assist the previously disadvantaged universities to up their game and shake off the legacy of the past.This funding is targeted at the universities of Fort Hare, Limpopo, Venda, Walter Sisulu, Western Cape, Zululand, Mangosuthu University of Technology and Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University, which incorporated the former Medunsa campus of the University of Limpopo. To qualify for this funding, these institutions had to develop detailed business plans based on identified strengths and weaknesses, including governance, management, financial and academic issues.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za