Political ructions within the ANC over its December elective conference played out at the weekend where both President Jacob Zuma and his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa used various party platforms to take aim at their critics.Ramaphosa, addressing a Chris Hani memorial lecture in Uitenhage, Eastern Cape yesterday, said the ANC s elective conference was a make or break moment for the ANC on its hopes to cling on to power in the 2019 general elections. Let s go correct the wrongs and reposition the ANC at the December conference. If there is a time to act, its at conference. We need clear decisions to chart a path towards the 2019 elections, Ramaphosa said.Ramaphosa s comments come against the backdrop of the ANC s succession battle, despite not being open, playing out in the full glare of the public. Ramaphosa and former African Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, have been punted for the ANC throne. Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is the latest name to be thrown into the race by an ANC branch.Ramaphosa said it was high time for the ANC to confront allegations of state-capture head on. He said the ANC could not afford to bury its head in the sand on the matter. State capture must be laid to rest. We gossip about it. We say there s an elephant in the room but we don t talk about it. Allegations that individuals exercise influence in appointments should be of grave concern to the ANC. We must be honest and brave enough to confront state capture. I support a judicial commission of enquiry. It is the truth that will set us free. Ramaphosa said if left unchecked, corruption and factionalism within the ANC would expose it to the threat of losing power in 2019. It is not pleasant to be taken out of power. We must now look at 2019 and whether we will lose power. We know why our support is going down. We have the research, so we need to correct our ways. Those that built this movement were open and honest. Unless we address these challenges, our electoral support will slide. However, Zuma, speaking at Siyabakhumbula heroes event at the University of Zululand on Saturday lashed out at his detractors. He said he felt betrayed by some leaders in the ANC who once stood shoulder to shoulder with him, but had now abandoned him. This was a resolution taken in 2012 and now we are implementing it. But some people say we are pushing for radical economic transformation because we want to steal money. And these are some of the people I trusted, he said.ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe also delivered a keynote address at the Chris Hani memorial lecture in the North West, identified factionalism as serious threat to the ANC. Corruption and looting is a lethal combination because powerful factions use this to destroy other factions. I m appealing to all of us, let s try to make our small contribution in fighting factionalism, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za