African National Congress Women&#8217;s League (ANCWL) says it is disappointed by Standard &amp; Poor&#8217;s (S&amp;P) decision to downgrade South Africa to junk status. ANCWL Secretary General Meokgo Matuba said they are however not surprised by the hasty decision. ANCWL has been on record questioning the objectivity of S &amp; P. Managing Director of S&amp;P, Mr Konrad Reuss, when speaking in panel during discussions on the outlook for Africa, at the Deloitte Africa 2017 Outlook Conference. He allegedly indicated that amongst other factors that will impact on SA institutional assessment by S&amp;P will be Cabinet reshuffle, said Matuba. The decision to initiate a review for downgrade was prompted by abrupt change in leadership of key government institutions, the rating agency said in a statement on Monday. South Africa s sovereign credit rating is currently two notches above non-investment grade at Baa2. The new Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba on Monday attempted to reassure the country and ratings agencies that only the executive had changed, the National Treasury remained strong and resilient and there had been no policy change. This following a cabinet reshuffle in which Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas were fired. ANCWL cautioned that SA must not be held at ransom by rating agencies that are serving a certain political agenda.&#8220;S&amp;P is not an apolitical institution and has interests on who has to be a Cabinet member. The ANCWL reiterates that S &amp; P as an institution undermines the Constitutional right of the State President to appoint his Cabinet and make changes when he deems necessary,&#8221; Matuba said.Meanwhile, Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane stated that the downgrade to junk status is a clear vote of no confidence in President Zuma and a direct result of his decision to fire Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas last week. President Zuma should resign immediately to allow a new administration to stabilise our economy, and to stanch this growing crisis, said Maimane. He added: Instead of acting in the best interests of the country and its people, Zuma chose to act in his own best interests by firing Gordhan and Jonas. The negative effects of this downgrade which is likely not to be the last will be felt by all South Africans. This downgrade will result in higher government borrowing costs, less money for basic services, and less job creating investment . Maimane also called on Parliament to remove President Zuma by supporting DA&#8217;s Motion of No Confidence which will come before Parliament in the coming weeks.