Banking is a tough industry to be in. Not only do financial institutions carry the burden of managing large amounts of money, they also have to stay on top of constantly changing legislation and the introduction of new technology and customer demands that impact how they do business and how they serve customers. As the market is dynamic, so are the antics of fraudsters. Unfortunately, when it comes to banking, risk is the nature of the beast. Banks need robust systems that guard against fraud losses, customer information breaches and noncompliance with stringent legislation. Electronic fraud is a common and growing problem that all banks battle with in Nigeria. Not being able to effectively manage e-fraud can result in increased operating costs, exposure to additional operating risk, reduced profitability and less effective controls. “We realised that we needed to implement preventative e-fraud controls that worked in harmony with other banking controls. These controls needed to help us to manage electronic fraud incidences, gather evidence and administer successful prosecution,” Demola Elutilo, systems auditor for internal control and audit in IT audit at Zenith Bank in Nigeria, said. It found the appropriate solution in SAS fraud framework and implemented it in three core business areas, online banking (inflows and outflows), insider abuse and third party fraud. “We are part of the internal control and audit group and our focus is on e-fraud management responsible for managing fraud risks on the bank’s e-channels. We are also responsible for IT audit review, control and security. A slip-up in our controls could have massive financial and reputational consequences for the bank, so it’s crucial that these are tightly managed. “Fraud affects every facet of the business. There was commitment from various business lines. This was one of the critical factors that contributed to the overall success of this project,” Elutilo said. Zenith considered a number of solutions from different vendors to help it manage risk within the department. SAS came out on top because management believed the solution could add value and depth to the business. “We have been on the SAS journey for more than three years,” Elutilo said. “We started with SAS in 2013 with the implementation of both the antimoney laundering and anti-fraud solutions. In the beginning, there were minor challenges but SAS has been very supportive, ironing out problems. “The bank approached this project on a modular basis and we identified three key milestones which have since been delivered. “The milestones identified covered three core areas of our business: online banking (inflows and outflows), insider abuse and third party fraud. “SAS has been enabling the bank to detect and prevent fraudulent incidents swiftly, thus preventing losses. The rollout of the project will continue and the next areas that will be covered are electronic cards, loans and treasury.” SAS was the obvious choice when Zenith Bank was looking to improve its security and risk management around e-fraud, he adds. “The obligation we owe our customers is to secure and protect their funds using cutting-edge technologies. We are confident that we have the right platform to deal with these new challenges. “We are confident that as we continue the adoption of SAS fraud modules, greater benefits and values that will help to prevent losses and attrition will be delivered,” Elutilo said. -TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za