In the beginning, well-travelled Mamelodi Sundowns defender Anele Ngcongca felt he was jumping into a flawless, welloiled machine when he joined the Tshwane side.But as things stand, the player who played most of his football in Belgium for KRC. Genk, counting Premier League star players like Kevin de Bruyne, Christian Benteke and Thibaut Courtois as his teammates, looks to have jumped on a train that was headed for disaster. With things are not going well for the defending Absa Premiership and CAF Champions League holders, anyone would wonder if the move was the right one.For Ngcongca, who only has the CAF Super Cup medal after missing out on the MTN 8, Telkom Knockout and recently the Nedbank Cup, this is the time for his quality, class and leadership. While many are beginning to write Sundowns off in the league after their three draws and two defeats in their last six matches in the league, the 29 year old, who also played for Troyes in France, said he still believes the Brazilians can save their season and defend their title.To do that, the man who is in his first season in the PSL, challenged his teammates to think more about the fans than their glory. This is the time where you ask yourselves if you respect the fans. You wonder how you would feel if you were that fan who is in the stands spending their last cent just to come and watch you. Is your performance and effort worth it? If the answer is no, then you have to improve. Because while we play, this is about how we make the fans happy and reward them, the experienced defender said. I came back here to win trophies and this is not just words. Cup competitions are gone but the league is still within reach. We have a chance and we should try to do everything to win it. I have been in teams that have went through slumps, but we have to focus on the next game, in this case it is the derby against SuperSport United. We have to win that one. Of course, there is also a chance of winning the Champions League again as Sundowns are in the group stages, but Ngcongca has his mind set on the league.He said with the squad that Sundowns have, defending their title should not be a problem. I know the boys are working hard, but we have to do better than our recent best. The coaches are doing their work to prepare us. The fans come to matches. We as the players have to find a way to bury the chances we create. It will be a collective effort from everyone in the club, not just the strikers. This is the time when we have to give support to guys like Percy Tau, Khama Billiat, Leonardo Castro and Anthony Laffor, to name a few, because their confidence is crucial to the team doing well, the former Uefa Champions League campaigner said. Sundowns will face SuperSport United, another title contender, in a league match on Thursday night.-Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za