Vuwani schools will remain closed on Tuesday as residents continue to protest. Pro-Makhado group spokesperson Nsovo Sambo said the community has resolved to resume  their shut down protest until their grievances are addressed.“The residence have agreed that they will embark on a peaceful shut down so that their their grievances can be heard ,” he said. Sambo said government has failed to listen to the community’s grievances.“The ball is in the court of the Government, that’s why we are in this particular shut down so that the government can listen to us. We have done everything, they have never listened to us, so this is just in their hands rather than in the hands of Vuwani,” Sambo said. Meanwhile Limpopo police spokesperson Lt Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said “there were some sporadic incidences since last night where there was throwing of stones with almost 4 cars  damaged. “We will continue to monitor every part of that area until the entire area remains quiet  indefinitely. The police could not divulge their deployment into the area but confirmed that they were on high alert in Vuwani and they are ready for any eventuality.Ngoepe warned that police will not tolerate any acts of violence or any unlawful acts. “We would like to call on all members of that area to be calm and if ever they have some concerns let them take it through the legal processes without any violent behavior ,” Moatshe Ngoepe said.He denied that police are refusing protesters the right to protest. “Where ever there is a need for us to apply certain measure we will do so, we are working according to the prescripts of the laws of this country,” he added. In the past, protests in the area have been marred violence with the burning and vandalizing of schools and other government and business properties. The residents are protesting against the Municipal Demarcation Board’s decision to remove them from Makhado Municipality into the newly formed LIM 345 which incorporates the Vuwani area and Malamulele. Residents have vowed to continue with these protests until the Demarcation Board reverses their decision. -TNA Reporter   