President Jacob Zuma s relationship with former finance minister Pravin Gordhan has suffered an irretrievable breakdown , ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said yesterday.Briefing the media on the outcomes of the ruling party s extended National Working Committee (NWC) meeting, which conducted a postmortem of Zuma s Cabinet shake-up, Mantashe, while circumventing questions from journalists as to what irreconcilable differences between Zuma and Gordhan led to the latter s axing, all Mantashe could say was that Zuma s use of a dubious intelligence report to provide grounds for Gordhan s firing intensified hostilities between the two.He did imply however that public perceptions of Gordhan being South Africa s de-facto president played a role. You will appreciate the tensions between the minister and the president. It makes life difficult for the minister, it makes life difficult for the president. That we appreciated.If the president gave an explanation of the irretrievable breakdown of the relationship that would have made more sense, the intelligence report complicated the matter, Mantashe said.His comments come against the background of a marathon meeting of the ANC s NWC, which assessed the aftermath of Zuma s Cabinet reshuffle as well as the subsequent downgrading of the country s sub-investment grade to junk status.Mantashe, making reference to a Zuma support rally in Germiston on Tuesday, denied assertions attributed to ANC NEC member Nomvula Mokonyane, that Mantashe, deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize were forced to apologise for publicly breaking ranks with Zuma on his decision to fire Gordhan. An NEC member who goes to a rally and says three of us apologise. Let me be diplomatic, she s very economical with facts. She should have been in a different meeting from mine. We were not asked to apologise. By anyone in the NWC. In actual fact that is something that has no truth in it, he said.Mantashe, making reference to a looming motion of no confidence debate in Zuma, said that no self-respecting ANC MP could assist opposition political parties in the removal of one of their own from office. There will be no ANC member who will vote, in either way, for a motion of the opposition. That will be uncharacteristic of the ANC. There is no motion of no confidence by the ANC. We have a party political system, he said.ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said that while the ANC s top six leaders knew about Zuma s intention to fire Gordhan, the bone of contention revolved around the other ministers whose heads were on the chopping block. Did we know that the president was going to reshuffle the finance minister yes. We ve known for quite a while. The president indicated in November. He was persuaded by us that he should wait a while. He explained his reason then, which was the relationship between himself and finance minister Gordhan was not good, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za