In the wake of an alleged plot to assassinate SACP deputy secretary general Solly Maipaila, the party s KwaZulu-Natal structure has cautioned against the possible rise of political assassinations and intolerance in the province.The SACP s Moses Mabhida region has added its voice to calls for an independent probe into the allegations. We are joining the calls from all our party cadres and members, across the country, that law enforcement agencies must investigate this matter with the speed that it deserves, provincial secretary Themba Mthembu said.On Sunday the North West province said it would seek an independent investigation to probe the alleged attempt to assassinate Mapaila.North West secretary Madoda Sambatha said that with the information the party had gathered, they were convinced independent investigations were needed to avoid what he called hiding of important information. We want proper independent investigations, not investigations that are meant to hide, but proper, credible investigations. According to the information on record that the SACP has gathered independently, it is necessary to call for independent investigations. We are worried that different views have now necessarily lead to where individuals are threatened in terms of lives. Calls for a probe intensified following the surfacing of video footage showing an unidentified man wielding what appears to be a gun aimed at Mapaila during last week s 30th anniversary commemoration of Chris Hani s assassination.Mthembu said the alleged plot to kill Maipaila could have led to a resurgence of political intolerance . The province of KwaZulu-Natal has experience in this regard. We have been in the worst form of internecine violence in the 1980s, right up to the 1994 democratic transition. We know how serious are the outcomes of political violence and the killings of leaders. Mthembu also warned that ongoing targeting of the SACP s leadership could have intractable consequences . additional reporting SABCTNA Reporter