The usual controversy that often surrounds music awards in the country has reared its ugly head again.Yesterday, many social media commentators said the South African Music Awards (Samas) processes are as flawed as those of the recent Metro FM Music Awards.The exclusion of King Monada s Ska Bhora Moreki and Lebo Sekgopela s Lion of Judah from the record of the year category resulted in the social media trend, #Sama23captured. #Sama23Captured I strongly believe Lion of Judah by Lebo Sekopela and Ska Bhora Moreki deserved spots in record of the year category, tweeted @TswalediMoukang.Another Twitter user @pelo_strauss said: If you wanna win an award it s either you buy it or like @drmalinga you throw your own awards ceremony. Sama23captured. The backlash comes a week after award-winning rapper Cassper Nyovest said he had not submitted his music for consideration as he does not rate the awards highly.The song of the year category is dominated by dance music with Black Coffee leading with two entries.Other names on the list include DJ Clock, DJ Ganyani, DJ Speedsta, DJ Euphonik and Mi Casa, Bucie, Amanda Black, Miss Pru DJ, Babes Wodumo and Mobi Dixon.A disappointed Lionel Jamela, who manages the talents of Afro-soul duo Soul Kulture, who leads with three nominations as well as that of King Monada said his team s efforts were in vain as his hit song failed to make the cut for the coveted song of the year category. We are disappointed that after all our efforts at promoting King Monada, with one of the biggest songs in 2016, were in vain. We really thought that the song deserved to be on the list. We will not give up as we believe King Monada has a great future ahead of him as he continuously gets international calls, Jamela said.Sama awards CEO Nhlanhla Sibisi dismissed the allegations levelled against the awards, saying all the 20 songs gunning for the coveted song of the year were selected on merit after due processes were followed. We accept that the awards will be scrutinised and we cannot afford to earn a bad reputation especially at a time the SA music industry is being seen in a bad light. We have followed all the right selection and tracing mechanisms at our disposal to come up with the list of the song of the year award, Sibisi told The New Age. All the songs were selected based on their consistent radio airplay over time. Last year Ganyani s Talk to Me did not make the cut as the time factor was against it, but this year the song is there. If Brenda Fassie s Weekend special was to resurface and get consistent airplay, the song would be included as we look at radio airplay over a period of time and not the release date of the song, Sibisi said.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenwage.co.za