YOUNG men who survive initiation schools but are left amputated struggle with emotional and physical pain for the rest of their lives, some opting to leave their villages and start new lives in the cities.The leader of Amputees Support Group in Lusikisiki, Gugulethu Sirayi, says these young men, who mostly lose their genitals in illegal initiation schools, feel excluded by the community and their peers who go through initiation successfully. In most cases these young men have girlfriends who they sometimes plan to have families with and when such a terrible thing happens, they lose all confidence as men. It is very rare that families would find out about this, Sirayi said. When these men leave their homes because they feel excluded, less of men and sometimes not human, they sometimes start new lives as criminals in nearby cities. He said some were able to leave home and make a success of themselves but sadly, that pain of feeling less of a man did not go away. Hence the support group which gives them need of a support and hope of a future. When the group started in 2013 we had 33 men in this programme.It is with great excitement to say after both initiation seasons last year, we had no amputees, Sirayi said. Chairperson of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities, Thoko Mkhwanazi Xaluva, said Mbizana and Lusikisiki had a very high rate of young men being amputated. Some of them are amputated three weeks after initiation. Some have even lost their legs or arms due to being assaulted by the initiators, Xaluva said. We are investigating ways in which these young men can be helped. I know of doctors in Cape Town and Pretoria who are able to conduct successful operations. We are going to follow up with the department of health to see if they are willing to assist with funding the operations of these men. Xaluva said it was necessary to also hear from police about progress on investigations.Furthermore, conversations with the criminal justice system have to take place to find out if they have made any prosecutions. She said the young men were willing to come out and talk about this problem, however, they did not want to be paraded.They want this to be handled with confidentiality as it is a sensitive matter. South African Police Service spokesperson Capt Khaya Tonjeni said the SAPS was in collaboration with the House of Traditional Leaders, conducts, monitors and intervenes strategically to ensure that Act 6, of 2001 is adhered to and any contravention of this act is dealt with accordingly, without mercy. He said those found to be contravening this act would be brought to court. In the last season of 2016, at least 61 cases were opened and 15 suspects arrested. The role of the SAPS is to visit initiation schools with the aim of checking compliance, Tonjeni said. He said failure to follow proper procedures of the Circumcision Act no 6 of 2001 and lack of direct involvement by parents, guardians of relatives is what they checked in all schools. If there is inexperience of traditional surgeons and traditional nurses, commercialisation of the ritual and circumcisions of underage (14) boys, we enforce the law . Tonjeni said they also looked for traditional nurses who did not allow these young men their medical treatment and failed to asses the suitability of weather conditions.SISANDA MADWANTSI