Social development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has upped the ante in her tit-for-tat public spat with former finance minister Pravin Gordhan.Dlamini lamented her former Cabinet colleague s swipe against her on at least two occasions during last week s memorial services for ANC struggle icon Ahmed Kathrada.She said Gordhan s actions in attacking a former colleague in the full glare of the public were at odds with ANC principles and values. I ve never seen another minister speaking out against an official of another department. I thought he was a committed comrade. This is not the first time that he did that. He is a bully who always wants to win, Dlamini told The New Age yesterday.Gordhan s onslaught against the under-fire minister started at Kathrada s memorial service in Tshwane last Wednesday when he said: I have never attacked a colleague in public. I am going to break that now. Gordhan then took a dig at Dlamini for her handling of the SA Social Security Agency s (Sassa) grants payment fiasco.Dlamini said she believed that Gordhan was using her as a proxy to attack President Jacob Zuma. He wants to use me to hang Zuma. This thing is political. He fought Muthambi (Public Services and Administration Minister Faith Muthambi) and Mokonyane (Water Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane). It seems as if I have made him upset, why is he portraying himself as an angel? At a stage I felt that he was creating a proxy government that looked innocent in the eyes of the people, Dlamini said.She broke her silence against what she perceived as attempts made to victimise her and her family, in the wake of revelations of Sassa s woes in securing a credible service provider to pay social grants. They closed the accounts of my sister who is an ordinary teacher. They have been following my family members, taking photos. I have been quiet all along. They have even been pushing for some people to investigate me. Meanwhile, Sassa CEO Thokozani Magwaza has rejected a number of assertions made by Dlamini relating to her role in the grants payment debacle.In an affidavit filed to the Constitutional Court, Magwaza said claims that Dlamini was unaware that Sassa would not be able to take over the payment of grants were untrue and that she had derailed the process of taking over.However, Dlamini in her affidavit laid the blame on poor communication between Sassa and herself. She said she could not be held personally liable as she only found out in October 2016 that Sassa would not be able to take over the payments of grants, despite officials having known six months earlier.Bonolo Selebano and Lillian Selapisanews@thenewage.co.za