The L Atelier art competition is back with a new opportunity for young, up and coming self-taught visual artists to secure a spot among Africa s elite visual artists. Over the past 32 years, the competition has opened doors for young, emerging artists and has provided them with a platform to share their work with the world, said art curator Paul Bayliss.Competition organisers Absa have subsequently released a new short film on L Atelier merit award winner, Collen Maswanganyi.Titled Mbatlo, the film traces Maswanganyi s love affair with wood material and his deep desire to continue his family s legacy of sculpting wood using the traditional mbatlo tool. This is a tool used to carve and shape wood. But it s not just any tool. It s special. It has been handed down from one generation to another. It has allowed me, my father and my grandfather to not only shape wood, but shape the future of African artists, Maswanganyi said.As the film moves through the significance of the mbatlo in Maswanganyi s work, it shows how this special tool has come to symbolise the Maswanganyi family as artists, his father, Johannes Maswanganyi, is an acclaimed South African sculptor who has exhibited both locally and internationally.The competition aims to nurture young talent and serves as a platform for emerging artists to make their mark in the African art arena. As such it is open to young artists in the 10 African countries where Barclays Africa has a footprint, namely, South Africa, Botswana, Ghana, Zambia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Mauritius, Seychelles and, for the first time, Mozambique.Adding to the excitement of the competition, the Absa Art Gallery in Johannesburg is exhibiting works by Ghanaian visual artist Gideon Appah.Appah s mixed media artwork, between a life and its dream (scrawl paintings) is meant to give art lovers an inside view into life in the ghettos of Ghana, sharing with them some of the themes that typify his country of birth. Appah is yet another L Atelier merit award winner, claiming the honour in 2015. His solo exhibition began showcasing on March 19 and will end its season on April 20.Appah s works use mixed media, predominantly paint, salvaged objects, collage, mark making and text to reflect the more gritty side of the world around him. I draw inspiration from temporary and permanent mark makings, which I find interesting in their own subtlety. A lot of the content I use is gathered from townships in Ghana. I use items such as labels from carton boxes, posters, lettering, photographs of drawings on walls, informal signage, imagery, stains and lottery numbers on the lotto kiosks that are scattered around the country, Appah said.In bringing this array of everyday objects to life, he first photographs the images, downloads them and then arranges them in a layered collage on the canvas, using paint, charcoal and other mediums to add depth and body. He then scratches through the prepared surface while it is still wet to reveal the marks, text, lettering and visuals underneath, creating palimpsests of imagery that appear to have been washed down with time. His works are a continuation of the metaphor between abstract painting and the visual world and act as commentary of his personal thoughts on the nature of the deterioration of Accra s urban landscape, Bayliss said.Some of the themes tackled by Appah s highly original pieces include intimacy, wealth, satisfaction and pleasure as these are down played realities of living in the ghetto or slum, especially in Accra and similar cities throughout Africa. I sought to magnify these issues and give them a voice. I had a very lively experience in one of Ghana s most infamous slums, Sodom and Gomorrah in Accra and following that found a burning desire to paint a different picture of my roots, transubstantiating that beauty out of decay in some way. SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabgongas@thenewage.co.za