Today s meeting between the ANC s top six officials followed by a national working committee (NWC) session is set to be a no-holds barred confrontation.In the aftermath of Thursday s Cabinet reshuffle, tensions between proand anti-Zuma factions have reached boiling point.This will be the first meeting of the officials since the ill-fated one last Thursday that saw Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize breaking ranks in an unprecedented move to condemn Zuma s decision to fire Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas.Since his firing, Gordhan and his supporters including the SACP have gone on the offensive against Zuma. The toxic climate has also seen an escalation of tensions in provinces as Zuma supporters gear up to take on his detractors.KZN ANC chairperson Sihle Zikalala, has lamented the use of ANC funerals to attack the party s leadership, including Zuma. Zikalala, who was addressing supporters at a by-election rally in Newcastle yesterday, also warned of playing into the hands of opposition parties. It is worrying that our members are using funerals to attack the president and in that process they find themselves agreeing with the opposition, Zikalala said.ANC NEC member Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who was closing the eThekwini ANC Women s League conference yesterday, said that the ongoing public dissent by some ANC leaders regarding last week s Cabinet reshuffle was unfortunate and should have been avoided by using internal party channels.She lamented that democratic centralism is slipping away . We all have views about everything but we all know as members of this glorious organisation where to express those views, Dlamini-Zuma said.Dlamini Zuma also said the cabinet which came to office on Friday was not too far from the 50-50 gender representation in all top positions in government. If we look at the national cabinet, we can see that it has 17 female ministers and 18 male ministers. We are almost there when it comes to the issue of 50-50. And there is 41% women in the national assembly, Dlamini Zuma said.ANC Youth League deputy president Desmond Moela said that the SACP s call for Zuma to resign was unwarranted and urged SACP Cabinet members who threatened to resign if Zuma fired former finance minister Gordhan to leave. We are still waiting for them to resign. They must leave the ANC, we don t care. The SACP must learn to respect the ANC. We elected Zuma and he is not going anywhere, he is here to stay, he said.Moela also branded senior ANC leaders who rubbished Zuma s prerogative as president to wield the axe on Gordhan s head, as ill-disciplined . They claimed that the president of the ANC has not consulted, they must be disciplined. The president (Zuma) has a prerogative to release anybody from his cabinet, he said.The ANC in the North West has also thrown its weight behind Zuma. Provincial secretary Dakota Legoete said that the provincial executive committee welcomed and pledged support to the newly appointed ministers and deputy ministers. It is our belief that the decision to reshuffle the Cabinet is in the best interests of the country and government and will further strengthen the radical socio-economic transformation programme. Legoete also condemned the conduct of Gordhan and his supporters. The conduct of some speakers, in particular the former deputy president at Kathrada s funeral, was an abuse of the platform they were given and a blatant disrespect of the legacy of Comrade Kathy.They sowed seeds of division in the organisation by launching an attack on the President, he said.The ANC s Lejweleputswa district in the Free State says it is in full support of President Jacob Zuma after the reshuffle. District chairperson Nkosinjani Speelman said they were fed up with the people causing divisions within the ANC. The President is the one who can make changes in the Cabinet and we are supporting him, He must finish his term, Speelman said.Meanwhile, National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete said she would start consultations over requests for a motion of no confidence in Zuma.The motion was tabled by the DA and the Economic Freedom Fighters. Mbete said she would consult with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and the ANC s chief whip, Jackson Mthembu and that the process may take a few days .BONOLO SELEBANO, ELFAS TORERAI, SIHLE MAVUSO AND BECKER SIMELAnews@thenewage.co.za