IT IS not clear who is behind the renovations of the gravesite of anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela into a tourist attraction. The gravesite is accessible only to the immediate family.It is expected to be opened to the public, a move set to boost the economy of the area where South Africa s first democratically elected president was born.Chief of Mvezo village and Nelson Mandela s grandson Mandla Mandela, said he did not know what was happening regarding the site I have not been part of any plans or meetings concerning this matter, Mandela said. The manager for communications, Andile Nduna, from the provincial government, said they did not have any details regarding the matter. We have attended meetings regarding the renovations of the gravesite but we were invited by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, Nduna said. Nduna said it was necessary that information about how this project would benefit the province, the government and the country be shared. Nelson Mandela Foundation media analyst Lunga Nene said the foundation was not involved in the proceedings.Nene said all discussions on the matter would be between family members and the government. I would advise that The New Age speaks to the Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela Family Trust and the Eastern Cape government, Nene said.According to museum management, the US is leading in the number of tourists visiting the museum, followed by England and Germany.Tourists from the African continent have also been seen visiting. Thus far, the museum has its ducks in a row and there have been no problems in accommodating tourists from around the world. Museum communications manager Nokuzola Tetani said tourists generally did not visit the museum during December, but things have changed since the death of Madiba. What they are most interested in is the story of Nelson Mandela and his last resting place, which is the gravesite. As much as they are not yet allowed to come to the gravesite, they are happy even with the opportunity to view the site at a distance, Tetani said.The province is expected to receive a huge economic boost from local and foreign tourism, as there have often been requests, particularly from foreign tourists, to pay their respects to the former leader.Scores of people who want to see former president Nelson Mandela s grave have flocked to the Nelson Mandela Museum at Qunu in the Eastern Cape.Tourists both local and international are increasingly showing an interest in viewing the historically important sites associated with Madiba. Mandela, who died in December 2013 at the age of 95, was buried on his ancestral farm in the rural area of Qunu.He established a home there after his release from prison following 27 years as a political prisoner.SISANDA MADWANTSI