Pastor Mmusi Aloysias Maimane was once an unknown cleric of the conservative Liberty Church in Johannesburg.A product of Dobsonville, Soweto, he opted for the cloth when his contemporaries chose apathy that would eventually land them in the corporate world. He was only known mainly to a small circle of family, friends and congregants, until he successfully applied for the position of DA councillor in the city of Johannesburg in 2010.Helen Zille, then the most powerful figure in the DA, took an immediate liking to Maimane. The timing was right. Zille was leading a party that was failing to grow beyond its white middle class and Cape coloured working class constituency. It was making no inroads in African communities and Zille was desperate to grow the DA beyond its traditional base.When she met Maimane, Zille had already ensured a meteoric rise for Lindiwe Mazibuko, who many were tipping as a future leader of the party. But Mazibuko was finding it difficult to connect with African voters in the townships and villages. The DA needed someone who was able to fit in both worlds who could eat pap and vleis at a shisanyama in Soweto for lunch and quaff cheese and wine with the yuppies in Houghton that same evening.Maimane was the perfect candidate. Fluent in Tswana and other variants of Sotho while maintaining an English accent like that of many model C-educated graduates. Even though no one was willing to admit so publicly, his rainbow family (his wife is white) was an obvious advantage, a living symbol of the non-racial society the DA so desperately painted itself as champion of. This was a face Zille felt was worth selling to a black electorate highly sceptical of the DA.Only a year into politics, 2011 was to prove the biggest of his young political life. He was chosen to run as DA mayoral candidate for Johannesburg and was named the party s national spokesperson, a position previously held by Mazibuko, who was then Parliamentary leader. Speaking on behalf of the DA catapulted Maimane to the national limelight and it was natural that he would grow too big for city politics.Maimane ran for Gauteng Premier in 2014, and when that campaign also faltered, the DA decided to deploy him to Parliament. Ever the tactician, Zille made sure she was there to keep her prot g s ambitions in check. Maimane would be parked in the National Assembly while she ran the show from Leeuwenhof Estate, the official residence of the Premier of the Western Cape.She already had big plans for Maimane after her public fallout with Mazibuko in 2013 over the DA s stance on employment equity legislation. Zille was already setting Maimane up to challenge Mazibuko for the position of Parliamentary leader.Realising that the tide had turned against her, Mazibuko abruptly announced her departure from politics shortly after the 2014 national elections, taking a scholarship to Harvard University in the US. The stage was set for Zille s grand project to be realised. As expected, Maimane cruised to the Parliamentary leader position.But Zille, who had ensured a smooth passage to power for Maimane, soon proved to be a thorn in the flesh for the DA.Zille gradually retreated into her provincial laager, often embarrassing the party with unwarranted rants on the social media space, Twitter. She railed against pupils whose families migrate from the Eastern Cape to the Western Cape, calling them refugees. She picked petty fights with obscure characters on Twitter and advocated problematic white race superiority ideologies.It was clear that she had become a liability and something needed to be done or the DA would risk alienating black voters. Shortly after one of her widely publicised fallouts on Twitter, the DA s internal strongmen had enough and Zille was cut loose. This was Maimane s crowning glory.Many in the ANC have always dismissed him as a stooge, a garden boy of Zille s who cannot take decisions without the approval of the Madam .This is frankly extreme and seriously unfair on the young DA leader. He is also under attack from the DA s old guard, most vocally from columnist Gareth van Onselen, a former DA strategist, who doesn t agree with the direction the party is taking under Maimane. Van Onselen has sought to belittle Maimane in a series of columns, painting him as a naive outsider, who is not rooted in the party s liberal traditions.Now Maimane faces his biggest task, that of pushing Zille, who made him, out of the Premier s office and literally out of the DA. It is his biggest political battle to date. Does he have the stomach to stand up to Zille and say to her face that she is a relic of the past who no longer fits into the DA of today?Maimane has apparently quietly told insiders within the DA that he wants Zille out, recognising that her glorification of colonialism and its supposed benefits to the great unwashed could be costly two years to a national election.The DA has set itself on winning Gauteng outright in 2019, but even if that doesn t happen, a coalition (or whatever they choose to call it) with the EFF might just deliver the province. But the EFF, which lent the DA support to govern Tshwane and Johannesburg metros, has already indicated that it could collapse those metros if Maimane doesn t take tough action against Zille. Can Maimane afford that risk?Zille has already dared him to act. She wrote in her column in the Daily Maverick that the DA risks losing its liberation tradition and adopting the ANC s African racial nationalism in a quest for votes. The real danger is that the DA, in its quest for votes, may start to swallow every tenet, myth and shibboleth of African racial-nationalist propaganda, including the scapegoating of minorities, populist mobilisation and political patronage, Zille wrote.-Muhammad Khalid Sayed