 My message to the ANC leaders is that they must win the 2019 elections, if they don t, the blood of the struggle icons will be on your hands. That was the warning from father Themba Seya at the OR Tambo wreath-laying ceremony held in Ekurhuleni yesterday. Oliver Reginald Tambo, the former president of the ANC, would have turned 100 this year. We cannot during this time come out and see enemies within the movement while struggle heroes fought so hard for our freedom, the root behind the in-fights is because of money. This is not about an individual or anyone else but the organisation, let us think about our country. We are now a laughingstock to the world, Seya said.He said it was not good that the ANC had lost three big municipalities in Gauteng and urged South Africans not to allow this to happen ever again. Leaders, please listen to what people have to say and implement it. The 2019 elections are coming. If the ANC is defeated, OR Tambo, Nelson Mandela. Walter Sisulu and other fallen heroes will cry in their graves. The party must be united, Seya said.Dali Tambo, who came with his family, including the newest member, Hallelujah Tambo, who will be a year old next week, expressed gratitude to the city of Ekurhuleni and all those who were celebrating the legacy of his father. This is not the best time when you hear father Seya speaking in the manner he did, you know there is something wrong, Tambo said.On the other hand, he noted, perhaps it was just as well that the movement his father helped to build against great odds, was facing the challenges in the year of OR Tambo. Some say this is not a good thing because there is division within the movement. Others, such as myself, say it is a good thing because we have been on a journey with the movement and sometimes, towards the end, one comes across steep hills and must overcome them, Tambo said.Tambo said that his father loved the movement and encouraged leaders to carry his values and ethics.He said he supported the construction of life-sized statues of struggle heroes because it was a way for future generations to remember the legacy of these leaders.The speaker of the Gauteng legislature, Uhuru Moiloa, also emphasised the importance of unity. We must ask ourselves if we are conducting ourselves with the necessary humility that we should pick humble people for our people or have we turned out to be powerful, arrogant individuals who have ascended into positions of power in control of the state that we do not serve our people, Moiloa said.He advised leaders to emulate the values that OR Tambo stood for.Poppy Radebe from the ANC s Wattville branch said she was not happy that leaders were fighting among themselves instead of taking the movement forward. I love OR Tambo, he was humble and wanted onlythe best for the movement, I will continue to pray for unity, Radebe said.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za