I frogz has released a new range of wireless listening devices called Coda, with earbuds, headphones and speakers. The range was met with acclaim when it launched in late 2016 and offered quality and functionality previously associated with significantly more expensive audio products.Now iFrogz has expanded its customer choice with new wireless earbud designs, wireless on-ear headphones and a speaker for shared portable listening. All products pair quickly and simply, offer intuitive controls that are child s play to use and give hours of enjoyable audio. We re excited to continually redefine what consumers can expect at accessible price points, Dermot Keogh, director of international product management said. iFrogz continues to make top quality wireless audio increasingly mainstream and the new Coda range is no exception.These products offer superior features and sound whether you re looking for wireless earbuds, headphones or a lightweight portable speaker. The expanded iFrogz Coda Bluetooth wireless line-up includes: Coda wireless earbuds In a range of contemporary colours, and featuring 10mm drivers, Coda wireless earbuds share the inventive wireless hub design found on its sister ranges, which keeps the earbuds lightweight and controls firmly anchored to clothing via a clever magnetic storage clip whether you re commuting or exercising. It is also supported by iFrogz earbud tips for life.Coda wireless headphones For those seeking over-ear listening, Coda wireless headphones boast 40mm drivers for powerful, rangy audio performance. There s 8-10 hours wire-free listening between charges, all enjoyed while comfortable, soft, padded headphones enclose you in your music. A backup 3.5m aux cable is included. Coda wireless speaker Bringing big sound into a sleek, lightweight design, the Coda wireless speaker utilises powerful 40mm drivers and a 360 omnidirectional speaker to create roomfilling sound.There s a built-in mic for instant conference calls on the go during working hours. Simple single button controls ensure you don t need to go reaching for your device every time you want to take control of your playlist, which is handy with an up to 10m wireless range. The speaker offers more than four hours of play.-Indie Boyce|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za