About 5000 households are reported to be at risk of homelessness in the inner city of Johannesburg as a result of evictions and the absence of affordable units.No less than 26 eviction cases are in court. This means the city may be faced with the provision of accommodation for these homeless people should these eviction orders be granted. The challenge faced by the city is substantial, mayoral committee member for housing Mzobanzi Ntuli said.He has appealed to residents and property owners to report any unlawful occupation of vacant property. While it is within property owners rights to seek the eviction of illegal occupiers, we appeal to property owners to first bring the matter to the attention of city officials who will take the steps necessary to find lasting solutions to the issue. To evict illegal occupiers without due process and notification to the city worsens the already desperate housing challenges and results in avoidable human tragedy, Ntuli said.He said the city embraces its constitutional mandated to progressively realise resident s right to housing.However, he said, as matters stand, the city face a substantial housing backlog of 300000 units.Ntuli said the city has a plan to address affordable rentals through the Inner City Housing Implementation Plan (ICHIP), beginning in the 2017-18 financial year. We are working hard to ensure our residents who are without decent housing are allocated a home which allows them and their families to lead dignified lives, Ntuli said.During the executive mayor s recent adjustment budget, it was announced that the city had allocated R291m to fund the Johannesburg Social Housing Company s (Joshco) purchase of buildings within the inner city.Ntuli said the buildings will be refurbished and used for low cost rental stock that will house about 1164 families.He said R546m has been made available to electrify 1841 housing units which are to be completed within the current financial year. The department has further committed itself to ensuring that all completed housing units are allocated by June this year, he said.The city has also allocated R2m for the construction of homeless shelters Johannesburg to address the challenge of homelessness. I am happy to announce that my department has finalised the city s housing list. The list is currently being audited to ensure that it is beyond scrutiny. In the next few months the list will be made public, Ntuli said. He said they were committed to finding long-term solutions to housing challenges to restore people s dignity.Illegal land occupation can be reported to the JMPD radio room on 0117589622.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za