More than 58 million Turkish citizens voted on Sunday in a historic referendum proposing 18 constitutional changes, which would give the president sweeping powers over the judiciary, military and bureaucracy.It ended in a victory for the Yes vote and for Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, but the legitimacy of the result is widely questioned by Turks, the EU and the US.International observers monitoring officials have refrained from commenting on the announced results until seeing the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe s findings.The Supreme Board of Election (YSK) has declared that the board will deem voting papers without official seals as valid, thereby openly violating the constitution. The YSK shut down its website and the state news agency again manipulated the results by releasing very different results, like it has always done in the past. Hundreds of videos of irregularities have been posted to social media.Despite this, the ruling AKP narrowly won the referendum, but lost in three big cities. No voters gathered in front of the YSK offices asking why their votes were not counted. Stefan Schennach, an Austrian member of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe team sent to Turkey to observe a referendum on Sunday, has said the referendum was neither free nor fair .For the first time, Erdogan felt a need to call on foreign powers to respect and recognise the results. This will be a real source of tension internationally, as well as in Turkey itself.Anatolia has been a bridge between East and West, the land of love and great sorrows.People always explain their stories through folk song or proverb. Whether forty mules or forty cleavers explains the story now. Once upon a time, a person committed a murder. The sultan offered two options; the cleaver option is clear but another one was to tie his body to 40 whipped mules.As Turkish intellectuals have long repeated that the Yes result would lead to authoritarianism; The No vote would cause conflict mainly between Kemalist and Islamist factions. Pro-government writer Cem K c k had already provoked people by saying that AKP won the referendum but be ready for war .Whoever studies Turkey will realise that no political, social and security reforms can be considered separate from the Kurdish issue.Turkey finally enters the presidential system which has been debated since the 80s but prevented by the status quo for fear of Kurdish separatism.It is ironic that the Islamist and ultra-nationalist section of Turkish society voted for the executive presidency which might lead to division of the country. Not surprisingly, the Kurdish party HDP, whose leaders, MPs and mayors are in jail, has taken the Yes result to court. However, Osman Ocalan, brother of Abdullah Ocalan, who is founder of PKK, called for a Yes vote. He said the Kurds must vote Yes, for an Islamist regime rather than the Kemalist alternative which failed to solve the Kurdish issue.We will see how Turkey will implement the referendum s 18 amendments which basically removes the prime minister s post and replaces the existing parliamentary system with an executive presidency.The presidential system allows Erdogan to rule until 2029 and gives him full control over state institutions. The result motivated secular-minded people of Turkey to resist AKP s anti-democratic rules.Besides, AKP has to face significant problems in the economy as Turkey s unemployment rate is at its highest since 2010 and inflation has reached double digits.Conflict with almost all neighbouring countries will not leave the governing party having to take a breath. Most importantly, post coup purges dispersed Nato s second biggest army and Turkey couldn t achieve anything in Syria.What will happen now? Firstly, the popular term state capture or political coup is already happening in Turkey for the last few years. The AKP government covered up corruption investigations in December 2013 following which four ministers resigned. It also introduced special courts which arrested almost all the police officers, prosecutors and judges who carried out the investigation against Erdogan s inner circle.The army was the last stronghold of Kemalist regime standing against AKP. Erdogan said the July 15 coup attempt was God s blessing to clean out the army. He blamed Fethullah Gulen for the coup attempt and purged almost all secular military officials.Despite the US, Germany and Britain reporting that Gulen was not behind the coup attempt, AKP is still purging people from the public sector. In addition to 130000 purges, the AKP is preparing to place 300000 party members in government posts.Secondly, the AKP was injecting cash into the Turkish economy from abroad. The government introduced a law that allowed unsourced cash to be brought into the country. So, Turkey received billions of dollar from some Middle Eastern countries. Economy experts say Erdogan might not be able to run this system much longer. The AKP seized more than 700 companies belonging to Gulenist businesses which amount to about $10bn (R133bn).The government appointed trustees from the state fund and took over the management of their businesses. Anti-democratic rules scared away foreigner investors. Turkey lost more than 50% of foreign investment in the last two years, including HSBC, Total and OVM.A key name from the corruption case, Iranian-Turkish national Reza Zerrab, who violated US sanctions against Iran, was arrested in the US last year. Besides Zerrab, the deputy CEO of the biggest state-owned bank, Mehmet Hakan Atilla s arrest in the US put Turkish banks at risk.Recently, Moody s has changed the long-term deposit and debt ratings of 14 Turkish banks to negative from stable. The Turkish economy gives out alarming signals as exports declined by almost 20% in 2016.Besides purges and the economy, the Kurdish issue and conflicts in the region might create existential problems for the Turkish state. The AKP government started a peace process in the early 2013. It recognised the PKK as the sole representative of all Kurds and never allowed other Kurdish groups to participate in the process.In 2015 June election, pro-Kurdish Peoples Democratic party (HDP) surpassed the 10% threshold for entering parliament to take more than 12% of the vote, AKP has lost its two-thirds majority in the parliament since 2012. Erdogan ended the peace process and destroyed many Kurdish cities. Now the psychological separation of Kurds has already been completed.Despite ending the peace talks with HDP and jailing most of its MPs and mayors, the Turkish state has been negotiating with Abdullan Ocalan since 2009. It is no secret that the Turkish referendum will create autonomous states in Turkey and Kurdish separation might be a reality. Northern Iraq has already achieved its autonomy and Syria s border with Turkey almost fell under Kurdish rule. The Turkish army has no power to fight against PKK and its Syrian branch YPG.Finally, AKP convinced Turkish people one-man rule. Democracy has been destroyed by democratic process. One of my Russian colleague told me that the Russians want an iron man. Likewise, most of Turks believe Erdogan s sultanate will restore the Ottoman state. The majority of Turks kept silent during an AKP crackdown on all opposition, including the arrest of a woman immediately after giving birth and the torture of thousands in jails.As a victim of Erdogan s regime, I lastly choose this proverb for my people: as you make your bed, so you must lie on it. Turkmen TerziTurkmen Terzi is a writer and commentator&nbsp;