Cosatu said yesterday that it could no longer ignore the negligent and disruptive actions of President Jacob Zuma.Briefing journalists on the outcomes of the trade union federations special central executive committee (CEC) meeting in Johannesburg yesterday, Cosatu president said while Zuma made a last ditch effort to seek an audience with the ANC s alliance partner on the reasoning behind last week s Cabinet reshuffle, Cosatu s patience with Zuma had reached its lowest ebb.Dlamini said that Zuma s attempts yesterday morning were a little too late. It is for this he said that Zuma had to step down with immediate effect. We would have done met if the president made a call to say he wants a meeting with Cosatu. The first inclination to the question is I wish this call would have come on Thursday last week. Then it would have saved the federation this situation that we are now in. The reality is that the call came today. We are hoping that the ANC leadership will sit down with the leadership of Cosatu and hear them through on the issues, it s not just one issue. Dlamini s comments come on the back of Cosatu s post-mortem on Zuma s Cabinet shake-up. Added in the mix was an ANC national working committee (NWC) meeting that is expected to give its thoughts on the wreckage left behind by Zuma s reshuffle. Ratings agency S &amp; P also cut South Africa s sub-investment grade to junk status on Monday.Dlamini said that while Cosatu s call for Zuma to step down was not an easy one, Zuma s decision not to consult the ANC s alliance partners on the reshuffle was the straw that broke the camel s back. The federation having to come to the conclusions that it did yesterday would not have been an easy path. It was a product of many attempts to reason, to persuade each other within the leadership of the ANC. When for the first time, such a big reshuffle was happening, we were not consulted. It s a small thing for the federation. We don t take kindly to not being consulted on this matter. Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali echoed Dlamini s sentiments on Zuma stepping down. The time has arrived for him to step down and allow the country to be led by a new collective at the government level. We no longer believe in his leadership. In particular, the use of state institutions and the SABC in factional battles and failure to consult ANC members and the alliance partners, he said.Ntshalintshali said however that ANC MPs should not remove Zuma through a proposed motion of no confidence debate in him called by opposition political parties. He said that the decision should be left to the ANC internally. The preferred option for us is not through the motions by the opposition. It is for the ANC to use its internal structures. The opposition are not targeting Zuma as the end of their project, they are targeting him as the first in the line of defence, and once they are done with him they are going to go to the next one, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za