With the Mother City on the top of the log as one of the most congested cities in South Africa, of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille plans to build unfinished freeways and bridges to alleviate traffic issues.De Lille has announced the city s plan to build three unfinished freeways and bridges on the western, central and eastern side of the Foreshore Freeway dead end.The city has been ranked 48th globally with its congestion levels which have increased by 5%.The latest traffic index from TomTom shows that Cape Town s congestion level in 2016 was sitting at 35% extra travel time in the morning peak of 75% and evening 67%. The traffic index indicated that the highways congestion was 30% and non-highways 37%. As the RTMC we hope that completion of the infrastructure will lead to a free flow of traffic, alleviate congestion and lead to improved safety on Cape Town roads, Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesperson Simon Zwane said.De Lille said Cape Town freeways were not enough to accommodate the traffic volumes of the metro. When engineers designed the freeways and embarked on the ambitious roads project, the traffic flowing into and out of the city was not nearly at the level that we are experiencing today. Apart from being an eyesore, the unfinished freeways are also preventing the development of prime city-owned land known as the Foreshore Freeway Precinct that is locked in under and between the existing highways and the harbour. De Lille said that this issue had resulted in lack of mobility in the city. The development of the Foreshore Freeway Precinct will be on a scale never seen before in Cape Town. We expect it to resolve some of the challenges that are presently preventing us from realising the city s full potential lack of mobility being key. She believed the project would be her legacy as mayor of Cape Town.Furthermore, it would address Cape Town s traffic congestion in the CBD. When I became the mayor in 2011, I pledged to do something about the unfinished bridges as a legacy project and not leave the area unchanged for another 50 years. No mayor has ever attempted to deal with the unfinished bridges and I would like it to be part of my legacy. De Lille said she would also include the building of houses for accommodation in the city centre to reduce traffic on the roads.The project would reverse the legacy of apartheid spatial planning and redress the injustices of the past by stopping long travelling distances and urban sprawl by bringing people closer to residential and work opportunities.The bridge was conceptualised and designed in the 1960s and started construction in the 1970s in a bid to alleviate traffic congestion in the city.Due to budget constraints, the bridge was never completed and has stood at a sudden end, going nowhere, since 1977.Keitumetsi Motlhaleprovinces@thenewage.co.za