Time for passive shareholders is over and radical economic transformation is the way to go, the Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies, said to the joint economic commission between South Africa and France, held in Paris, at the weekend. Davies and his deputy Gratitude Magwanishe, arrived back in the country yesterday. The JEC was preceded by the South Africa-France Business Forum which was attended by business delegations from both countries. South African exports to France increased from R6.6bn in 2012 to R8.1bn in 2016 showing an average growth of 7% for the period. However, South Africa has been facing a massive trade deficit between these years as imports from France increased from R20.3bn in 2012 to R41.5bn in 2016. South Africa’s imports from France in 2016 compared to 2015 showed an increase of 35%, double the percentage increase in exports to France last year. Davies told his French counterparts that: “We cannot have an economy in which ownership, control and leadership is only confined to a small section of the population. “We need to broaden the base of participation in our economy, so for us black economic empowerment is imperative. What we are looking at in the model of empowerment that we have put to companies, is we are particularly focusing on empowering people to become real players in the real economy. “This is rather than being shareholders in somebody else’s company where they are not playing a leading role or developing their capacities.” South Africa’s trade relations with France and the European Union (EU) are governed by the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) which came into force last year. The EPA replaces the trade chapter of the Trade Development and Cooperation Agreement. The SADC EPA group – Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland – is now a common framework for all the members. Davies said the EPA provided a way to ensure that Brexit did not disrupt the country’s trade relations either with the UK or the EU. He said the EPA would continue to guide trade relations with the EU after Brexit. Davies and Magwanishe also held bilateral meetings with French minister of state for the industry, digital sector and innovation; Christophe Sirugue and Minister of State for European Affairs and International Trade; Harlem Desir. Davies and Sirugue delivered keynote addresses at the business forum which was followed by presentations and business to business interaction. The JEC was opened with keynote addresses by Davies and Desir. Davies said trade and investment figures showed there was an opportunity for South African businesses to increase exports to France and for French companies to increase their investment in South Africa in targeted sectors. -TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za