Students at North West University (NWU) Mafikeng campus have been challenged to shun the culture of violence and safeguard infrastructure to aid their professional growth.NWU vice-chancellor Prof Dan Kgwadi said that while the institution welcomed the new R37m nursing science building, the tendency of some students to burn property was a worrying factor. We have built a R37m state of the art building to assist nursing students but we are worried at the R52.7m we used in the reconstruction of the burnt administration block. To us, the R52m is as good as money gone to waste that could have been used to build other structures had it not been for a few rogue elements who feel that having a petrol can and matches gives them a licence to burn property, Kgwadi said.The university suffered its biggest loss in history after a violent #FeesMustFall protest left the administration block and the science centre in ashes after some students petrol bombed the building. If we don t deal with the culture of violence, the misplaced victim mentality and a lot of misguided political views, we will continue to lose money on infrastructure development. Students have to think beyond themselves because this institution is here to serve even future generations. Although the nursing science building has been in operation since 2015, the campus felt that it was necessary to officially open it and celebrate it with the public and those who learn and teach in it.However, Kgwadi said the official opening of the building shows the university s commitment to delivering quality education. The opening of this building is a confirmation of our strategy which is based on equity of resources. Through this building, we will be providing state of the art resources to students. We will be working together with the Department of Health to ensure that students can benefit from this building and contribute meaningfully to society. Health MEC Dr Magome Masike said the opening of the building was another milestone for the province. Human resources is a problem which is facing the nursing fraternity. We hope to increase the number of students who are graduating annually from our nursing schools to 1000. The department appreciates the efforts by the university to encourage education in nursing, Masike said.He said the burden of diseases we are fighting as a nation outweighs the number of nurses being produced. He urged future nurses to be patient with those they are providing their services to.Prof Sevid Mashego, who was instrumental in the construction of the building, said the centre is a world class facility which even provides live simulations of cases that nurses will be dealing with. They are using mannequins which can even talk back to the trainee nurses while they are practicing, Mashego said.He said the quality of learning provided at the nursing department was so high that the only thing students did when they walked out of the building waspracticals at hospitals and clinics.Dr Margeret Masilo, a lecturer at the nursing science school, said she was happy that the building had been officially opened.Masilo said this was a progressive step for the university and it was one of their wishes that this building be opened. We always tell students that to be a good nurse, one needs to work hard, be committed, passionate and willing to sacrifice your weekends to help others. This structure will assist us a great deal in producing more nurses, Masilo said.Lerato Kobue, a second-year nursing student, said the quality of education they are receiving was high and she appreciated the support from lecturers. I m so happy to be part of the opening of the building which we are learning in. As students, we love the structure and want to thank the university for bringing this building, Kobue said.The school of nursing science has 25 academic and two support staff. There are four professors, six doctors and seven masters degree lecturers.The school has more than 350 registered students at different levels for this year.ELFAS TORERAI AND NTHUSANG LEFAFAelfast@thenewage.co.za