Two South African universities has been ranked among the top five universities globally by the Centre for World University Rankings in its yearly subject rankings.The University of Cape Town (UCT) was ranked among the top five universities in two subjects, ornithology and area studies, while the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) was ranked among the best in area studies.The Centre for World University Rankings released the rankings yesterday placing UCT third in the world for ornithology, the study of birds and fourth in area studies. Wits was ranked second in area studies.For ornithology, UCT was ranked third along with Lund University in Sweden, which received the same ranking score as UCT (90.22). For area studies, Wits came second to Oxford University.The deputy vice-chancellor for research and internalisation at UCT Prof Mamokgethi Phakeng said the university was proud of the international recognition of their scholarship in these fields. Having universities that rank globally (including other South African universities) benefits the country. It sends a message that the country s higher education system is globally competitive , Phakeng said. The high ranking in these two fields demonstrates that African researchers can take the lead in helping to solve African problems and also that they are bringing a strong African voice to global debates. The rankings highlight the world s elite universities in science and social sciences, based on the number of research articles in top-tier international journals.Prof Peter Ryan, director of the FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithology, said this was great recognition of the contribution that researchers at the university made towards ornithological studies. The fact that UCT is so prominent in ornithological research provides further validation of the success of the National Research Foundation (NRF) Centre of Excellence funding model, he said. We are grateful to the NRF for the funding that enabled much of the work done in this area, putting South Africa on the map. It is investments such as these that will help make the issue of African biodiversity visible globally. LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za