Road construction company Tasima yesterday said it had petitioned the Supreme Court of Appeal for leave to appeal following the high court decision not to grant it leave to appeal its order to comply with an earlier ruling that it handover the running of the eNatis system to the Road Transport Management Corporation (RTMC) with immediate effect.Leave to appeal was denied by justice Neil Tuchten on Monday. The company s spokesperson, Trevor James, said the appeal was transmitted to the RTMC and the Department of Transport on Wednesday morning and was lodged earlier in the afternoon with the registrar of the SCA in Bloemfontein. This means the operation and effect of the Tuchten order is still suspended in its entirety pending the finalisation of the appeal before the SCA. Notwithstanding the suspension of the Tuchten order and in the full knowledge of Tasima s petition to the SCA, the RTMC unlawfully stormed and seized control of Tasima s premises where the eNaTIS system is operated from. This is unlawful self-help, spoliation and constructive contempt by the RTMC and its officials who were also found to be in contempt by the Constitutional Court in November 2016 and on many other occasions by the high court. Tasima is currently considering its options in this regard, James said.This after the Department of Transport took legal counsel to compel Tasima to comply with a Constitutional Court decision handed down against it on November 9 last year. Judge Tuchten ordered the company to vacate the eNatis Midrand offices immediately and hand over all assets to the RTMC. The DoT had taken legal counsel through the now axed minister Dipuo Peters. She had based her action on a Constitutional Court finding that the extension to the contract to Tasima was granted in contravention of the Constitution, the Public Finance Management Act and Treasury regulations.The court granted the RTMC leave to terminate the illegal and irregular extension of the contract and Tasima was ordered to hand over the running of eNaTis and associated services to the RTMC within 30 days of the court decision. The court decision also granted the Department of Transport leave to approach the court should Tasima commit any act intended to deliberately delay or frustrate the transfer process.The RTMC argued that it has since May 3, 2015 been ready to administer eNatis. Its state of readiness has unreasonably been delayed and denied by Tasima, employing tactics informed by its desire to syphon money from the state, the RTMC said. The court decision was a reconfirmation and a vindication that the department and the RTMC was competent enough and ready to execute its mandate without the involvement of third parties, it said.In a similar circumstance that involved the production of driving licence cards, the department is producing and managing the driving licence system in house without the involvement of a third party and the work has been diligently managed. This is one illustration that the government has the capacity, capabilities and dedicated men and women who are committed to serve the people of South Africa, RTMC said.eNatis offices and related services are declared critical infrastructure and categorised in the critical infrastructure legislation, Chapter 3, 13 (1) subsection 2(b) computing and telecommunications equipment, software and processing facilities. It is within this context that Peters believed that Tasima was unlawfully occupying a national key point facility which hosts high tech technology containing critical traffic management services and data.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za