Cape Town City coach Eric Tinkler knows their title aspirations will be tested when they meet top rivals Bidvest Wits and Kaizer Chiefs in succession later this month.The log leaders host both title contenders in Cape Town on April 19 and 25. Following their impressive 4-1 victory over Chippa United on Monday, City returned to the summit of the log with 42 points, one ahead of second-placed Wits. Tinkler is targeting both matches as, should they win, they will extend their lead over their title rivals. I explained to the players that those games will not win you the league only. Chippa United, Platinum Stars are coming. We need to focus on those and ensure that we try and pick up maximum points in those games, Tinkler said. But it is about us going one game at a time. We are trying to achieve our objectives of hitting 46 points. We are only four short of that and I think we are doing quite well. I think we are up there challenging for the third quarter. Tinkler is pleased his side has been scoring regularly, which could be a deciding factor in winning the championship. Obviously we know that we need to get more goals to try to improve our goal average because you never know come the end of the season, it might play some sort of a significant role, Tinkler said. We are in an extremely tight season. There are no easy games. We saw what happened to Mamelodi Sundowns at the weekend when they lost to Chiefs and Polokwane City losing to Bloemfontein Celtic. Everybody is capable of beating everyone. I think it will be a tight league this year. The former Orlando Pirates coach was also full of praise for striker Bhongolwethu Jayiya who scored a hat trick in their 4-0 victory over Chippa. Great for Bongo because I have been on his case for quite same time now because I know what he is capable of. I know him and his history. I expected him to achieve more than what he has as a footballer and now he s shown what he is capable of, but he needs to be consistent that s what has become important in his game, Tinkler said.-Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za