Getting pregnant maybe the easiest of all things, however, some couples do find it hard to conceive for several reasons, including weak or insufficient sperm count.In some cases, as when nature needs a boost, a little push from you and your partner can go a long way in getting pregnant. When it comes to the best position to get pregnant, the general rule is that the male sperm must be deposited as near to the female cervix as possible.This has something to do with the life spans of the female egg and the male sperm. Once an egg is released from the ovary &#8211; a stage also known as ovulation &#8211; it begins its path down the fallopian tube to the uterus. A released egg typically survives for only 24 hours, while a sperm can last anywhere from three to five days in the female body. As such, the egg has to be as close to the egg as possible so they can meet and join before the egg dies.While not a lot of people will agree that the sexual positions have anything to do with getting pregnant, the logical inference is that it makes sense to assume the position that can help the sperm meet the egg in the shortest possible time.This is especially true when for couples who have problems or difficulty conceiving. Having said this, the first &#8220;best position to get pregnant&#8221; tip is to avoid positions that least expose the cervix to the male sperm, and that generally defy gravity such as sex while standing up, sitting down, or with the woman on top. When trying to conceive, it is best to limit the amount of sperm that flows back out of the vagina.The woman&#8217;s hips should also be positioned in such a way that the sperm released is kept inside, giving it enough time to swim up to the female cervix.Consider the following positions instead:1. The missionary position. Or man-on-top is said to be the position that&#8217;s best for getting pregnant. This is because this particular position allows for the deepest possible penetration, making it possible for the sperm to get deposited closest to the cervix.2. Raise the hips. Elevating the hips, which can be done by placing a pillow behind her, can also be helpful because this exposes the female cervix to as much semen as the male can release.3. Doggy-style. The rear-entry position where the man enters the woman from behind is also a recommended position. In this position, sperm is also deposited closest to the cervix, thereby helping increase the chances of conception.4. Side-by-side. You can also try having intercourse while lying side by side. This position likewise causes the most exposure of the cervix to the male sperm.5. Orgasms. Finally, while this has nothing to do with sexual positions, there are also researches that suggest the importance of the female orgasm in conceiving. According to studies, female orgasm leads to contractions that could push sperm up into the cervix. The lesson: have fun while trying to conceive.6. Spooning: Men have forgotten the art of foreplay and guess that&#8217;s the reason why women don&#8217;t enjoy sex as much as they used to. But, spooning before sex can solve the problem by increasing your chances of getting pregnant faster because spooning encourages better arousal in men and their chances of producing quality sperm increase. A cuddling position of sorts, spooning comprises one partner lying on one side with knees bent while the other partner lies with his or her front pressed against their back.7. Woman on top: At times defying gravity can work wonders, and when it comes to making a baby, the woman on top position is the best as it guarantees maximum penetration. Woman on top, also called the cowgirl or riding position, is a sex position in which the man lies on his back or sits back and the woman straddles him facing either forward or back, and the man inserts his erect penis into the woman&#8217;s vagina.8. Lying on the back: Though it&#8217;s not a sex position, it&#8217;s best to lie down on your back after a rocking sex session to maximise your chances of conceiving as lying down helps in pushing the sperm to the cervix.9. Peg style: Peg style is another sure shot position to make you pregnant. All you need to do is make your man lie flat on the bed and lie flat on him. What will follow is not something we need to tell you, right ladies?10. Go stress free: No matter what sex position you opt for, trying to conceive won&#8217;t fetch you any results if you are stressed out. Try deep breathing exercises, yoga and meditation to go stress free and have a happy and quick conception!This article first appeared on Times of India 