The government is gearing up for Phase 2 of the Back2Basics project to be outlined at the third Presidential Local Government Summit taking place tomorrow at Gallagher Convention Centre in Midrand.Many lessons have been learned by the Ministry of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) through their Phase 1 of Back2Basics project.B2B was launched in 2014. It ensures that municipalities work together with other spheres of the government (provincial and national).Cogta Minister Des van Rooyen yesterday said it ensured that basic services like water, electricity and infrastructure were taken care of. This summit comes just after local government elections. The centre of the summit is firstly to look at the progress, challenges, lessons we have picked up since the implementation of Phase 1. He said lessons learned included knowing that providing services at a local government space is not solely the responsibility of local government. Out of the Phase 1, we learned the need to enhance our collaborative efforts to improve providing services to municipalities, he said.Van Rooyen said many municipalities were still encountering the three ills of society, poverty, unemployment and inequality. We will need to take issues of economic development in municipalities very serious as a solution. This is why we are saying there is a need to create space for radical social economic transformation, he said.Van Rooyen said the government had invested a lot of money in infrastructure, most municipalities want the operation of site and the maintenance too. This is what we will discuss extensively as to how we will deal with such issues. Technically we continue to grapple with some poor municipalities, they are not doing well with interns of a revenue basis since there are no better positions to recruit technically skilled people. Van Rooyen said they had established a municipal infrastructure support agency which they thought was doing a very good job so far. We have assembled 50 engineers just to support municipalities that are technically challenged, we still need to do more. Van Rooyen said that urbanisation was growing at a rapid pace, especially in metros, hence they had to champion the cause.Zuma will be among the speakers.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za