The Department of Home Affairs will extend its hours and add 200 staff to 10 high volume ports of entry ahead of the Easter holidays.Newly appointed Home Affairs Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize said the move was aimed at easing the movement of travellers during the Easter weekend.She was addressing the media for the first time since replacing Malusi Gigaba, who is now finance minister, following a Cabinet reshuffle last Friday. We are extending hours at selected ports of entry, effective from April 11 to 19 substantively to ease movement for travellers in and out of South Africa over the Easter holidays, Mkhize said.OR Tambo International Airport, Beitbridge border post, Cape Town International Airport, Kopfontein in the North West, Golela in KwaZulu-Natal, Maseru Bridge and Ficksburg in Free State, and Oshoek and Lebombo in Mpumalanga have been identified as high volume ports of entry.Lebombo and Oshoek will operate 24 hours a day during the busy period. On a normal day, the two borders are open from 6am to midnight. We trust that extending hours will go a long way in minimising burdensome queues, delays and inconveniences to travellers. We want to make travelling into and out of our country as pleasant as possible, Mkhize said.She believes the deployment of 200 additional staff, which includes senior managers, to the ports will enhance service delivery. These staff members will be deployed from our head office and other ports of entry which are less busy. Our Home Affairs Learning Academy has also contributed greatly in providing additional officials for peak periods, she said.Mkhize said it was imperative that staff, as well as border ports, were well prepared to facilitate traveller movements and to mitigate transgressions. Security dynamics and risks in peak periods include the spectre of undocumented travellers, fraudulent documents, illegal stamping of travel documents and dealing with challenges relating to personnel integrity, she said.She said a comprehensive operational plan to support port operations was in place. This goes with optimum law enforcement activities, as a deterrent to crime and corruption. This is based on the need to ensure the lawfulness of entry and exit of travellers at our ports of entry, she said.An analysis of all movement for March and April 2012 to 2016 shows an increase from around 5.7 million recorded movements to more than 7 million in 2016. Mkhize said she had been familiarising herself with legislation and departmental policies.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za