STEVE Komphela is closing in on the unwanted distinction of becoming the first Kaizer Chiefs coach in the PSL era to go two successive seasons without winning any silverware.Since the PSL was established in 1996, Chiefs, who have been known as the country s cup kings, have not gone two season without winning a trophy but it looks like that could change by the end of this season.This is after their best chance of winning silverware disappeared on Saturday when they were dumped out of the Nedbank Cup in a 5-3 penalty shoot-out defeat to SuperSport United at FNB Stadium.Last season, Chiefs also finished the season empty handed after they lost the MTN 8 and Telkom Knockout finals to Ajax Cape Town and Mamelodi Sundowns respectively. Ramahlwe Mphahlele had cancelled out Jeremy Brockie s goal to send the match into extra time. Chiefs had the opportunity to take a lead after being awarded a penalty but Bernard Parker missed the spot kick. We came into the match knowing that we have it in our hands. We could dictate and determine our own fate but unfortunately no one will remember that we missed a penalty in the first half of extra time, Komphela said. We missed a penalty during the shoot-out and that we got knocked out through penalties is disappointing obviously. Although Chiefs are still in the running for the PSL title with 45 points from 24 matches, their destiny is no longer in their hands as they will need teams also challenging to drop points for them to have a chance. Turning all that into the league championship, the sad part of it is that we still have to depend on other teams dropping points. The Nedbank Cup was better because we could have won it and not depend on other results. On the back of this defeat, the biggest challenge is how do you lift them up and help them refocus on the remaining matches. Chiefs are in action tomorrow against in form Cape Town City away before they travel to Nelspruit to face SuperSport in the league.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza