Enjoying home ground advantage in a venue filled with a receptive crowd President Jacob Zuma threw down the gauntlet, telling his detractors that he was going nowhere.He hit out at his detractors within the ANC and the tripartite alliance and those outside the ruling alliance including the Freedom Movement an alliance of opposition parties.Addressing the 23rd Freedom Day celebration at Mhlabuyalinga in northern KwaZulu-Natal, Zuma poked fun at the Freedom Movement which called for his recall at a gathering in Pretoria yesterday.The crowd of about 10000, mainly youths, went wild every time Zuma switched to Zulu to take a dig at his opponents. When it s Freedom Day we need to be happy and celebrate but today there are those who are not celebrating. Instead, they spent a lot of money to insult someone and some party for the whole day. We are happy this side while they on the other side are throwing insults, maybe they will get the message when we celebrate the 42nd Freedom Day, Zuma said to loud applause.Taking a jibe at the DA and Economic Freedom Fighters, Zuma said they were perennial shade throwers, adding that their anger could not build a united South Africa. Some people join politics even when they are clueless. They think true politics is insulting others and preventing others from speaking, he said.Zuma outlined the country s progress but admitted a lot still needed to be done, hence the need for radical economic transformation, a policy he has been advancing over the past few weeks. The land question will feature prominently in the policy conference discussions of the governing party in June, including the debates on the expropriation of land without compensation. KZN ANC chairperson and acting KZNPremier Sihle Zikalala warned those calling for Zuma to go that he will be president until 2019. He said those who marched against him must know that his supporters had rights to march too. Those who have marched have the right to do so but the majority of people in South Africa voted for Zuma and they have a right to march too. Up until 2019, we will have one president, Zikalala said.Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa urged the crowds to remain steadfast. Let me say this, more especially to young people, don t be swayed by the noise made by some people. The difficulties of the moment are difficulties of the moment, they are going to come and go. Don t be swayed, Mthethwa said in reference to calls that the youth must stand up and push Zuma out of the presidency.Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa was seen laughing at times but did not address the crowd.sihlem@thenewage.co.za