Soulful singer, Dumza Maswana has come a long way as a studio session musician.His journey to the centre of the SA music industry began when he had to lend his voice, doing baritone parts for some of the country s big gospel names, among them Rebecca Malope, Avante, while supporting Sliq Angel during live performances.Having realised a long time ago the importance of giving your all , the Port Elizabeth-born musician s hard work has been rewarded with his first ever award nomination, courtesy of the South African Music Awards.Maswana is nominated in the category of best African adult album for his sophomore offering, Molo, which was released in October last year.He has his work cut out for him as he will have to fend off stiff competition from the likes of Afro soul duo, Soul Kulture, Kelly Khumalo, Nathi and Nozipho if he is to win the award. To say I am excited to be nominated is an understatement. I am beyond excited. The Samas are South Africa s biggest awards. The nomination has nothing to do with hype, but has all to do with music and talent. I believe that the nomination alone is big enough to open doors for me and not to take anything away from the other talented artist I am nominated with, I really would not mind winning the award, the Nomthandazo hitmaker told The New Age.Maswana is no stranger to the South African music industry as one of his songs, Nguye, off his 2009 debut album Iphupha Lam, became an instant hit on various national, provincial and regional radio stations.The success was instrumental in paving the way for Maswana as a versatile singer, producer and songwriter. He writes mostly about his life experiences and views on life as a way to reflect his own world, fears and triumphs.For his second album, the independent artist hand-picked some of the country s jazz producers, among them, Nduduzo Makhathini, Luyanda Madope and Gabriel Stuurman. I was quite young when I recorded Iphupha Lam. This time around I had a say in the direction of the album, unlike in the first album where I had no say whatsoever, he said. I do not write about love, but about real issues affecting real people. One of the songs that people love is Andikho, a song that tells the story of person who, after borrowing money from people hides from them, telling his children that he is not at home, when these people come to collect their money, he said.As a result, the singer said music fans and industry heavyweights such as Sipho Sithole have commended him for a job well done. Many people have told me that they identify with Andikho as it is familiar to them, he said.The singer said some of the artists he looks up to include, Simphiwe Dana and Victor Ntoni, both culturally strong musicians, who are never scared to use their languages to connect with their fans. When I heard Victor Ntoni sing in his baritone, I realised immediately that there was a chance for me in the industry. He is indeed the biggest inspiration for developing my love for music. I also love the way Dana goes about writing her music. She has a way with the language, which inspires me all the time, he said.In the album, the singer also dedicates a song to his beautiful daughter, Emihle.He also features Titi Luzipho on a song, Ndiyavuma. Then there is veteran Suthukazi Arosi, who adds a sparkle to the album on the song, Sombawo.The song evokes a sense of spiritual intervention from God as both of their voices blend beautifully into a melodic praise song.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za