 If the mountain will not come to Muhammad, then Muhammad must go to the mountain. In a twist to this adage, the beach will soon be coming to landlocked Gauteng. Yes the province will soon have sea, surf and the obligatory beach babes and dudes thanks to a bid by multinational water innovation company Crystal Lagoons partnering with Balwin Properties to bring coastal life inland east of Tshwane.Through a residential development by Balwin, the Blyde at Riverwalk Estate costing R4.2bn will present Crystal Lagoons unique technology patented in 190 countries, which allows for the construction and maintenance of unlimited sized bodies of water in crystal-clear conditions at low cost. At 1.5ha (which is equivalent to just more than two rugby fields), the Crystal Lagoon will be a key selling-point to the development and be the first lagoon to feature our game-changing technology and unique concept in sub-Saharan Africa, regional director for Africa of Crystal Lagoons Alastair Sinclair said.The development will feature beaches, a pedestrian promenade and exclusive clubhouses for residents usage.Sinclair says that Crystal Lagoon will be a family orientated amenity that will allow for swimming and the practice of water sports in a safe, controlled environment. Having ventured into North Africa already, the company says it s only the beginning of its expansion into subSaharan Africa. With 13 projects in various stages of design, construction and operation in Egypt, the addition of this lagoon to our growing portfolio serves to further extend our footprint on the African continent and cement the region as one of importance to the global growth of our company, Sinclair said. By bringing the beach to Pretoria we are taking apartment living to the next level by making resort lifestyle living a reality. This development will also have the signature lifestyle centre that has become synonymous with Balwin Properties, including a fully equipped gym, squash court, restaurant, concierge, laundromat, cinema room and a function room as well as state of the art security, Balwin Properties CEO Steve Brookes said.The continuous promenade around the lagoon will be perfect for sunset strolls and it will connect the different amenities around the lagoon, Brookes said. The water amenities are sustainable as a typical Crystal Lagoon uses 30 times less water than a standard golf course. Rainwater replenishes the amenities due to the patented anti-evaporation film which restricts the amount of water lost via evaporation. We are confident that the inclusion of this water amenity at the Blyde in Riverwalk Estate will significantly increase the sales rate of the project and will enable other developers to see the return on investment that the installation of a Crystal Lagoon can provide, Sinclair said.According to a PricewaterhouseCoopers document on the drivers of change in the real estate industry, demand for housing in Africa is expected to be boosted dramatically because of its growing middle class.This will most likely be the target market for the new development, if keeping with the current description of investors that buy from them. Balwin estate s one, two and three bedroom sectional title residential units which range in size from 45-120m and in price from R599 999 to R1.6m per unit but given the partnership this may drive the pricing a bit higher. According to Lightstone Property the estate market is growing in South Africa. When looking at the 6.2 million residential properties in South Africa, which totals R4.3 trillion in value, estate property makes up 5.1% of that total volume and accounts for about 15.1% of the overall property market value, the property advisor said.It said research had found that over 50% of estate properties are located in Gauteng and Johannesburg specifically. Villa Santini in Sandhurst tops the list with a median value for a property within the estate setting you back about R17.4m, it said.HLONI MASHIGOnews@thenewage.co.za