South Africa needs to act with urgency to accelerate inclusive growth and development, the national Treasury said last night in response to the announcement by ratings agency Standard and Poor s that it had downgraded the country to junk status. South Africa is committed to a predictable and consistent policy framework, which responds to changing circumstances in a measured and transparent fashion. Open debate in a democratic society should not be a cause for concern but reflects an important means to accommodate differing views. South Africa s constitutional arrangements remain robust. These key institutional strengths are acknowledged by rating agencies, the Treasury said in a statement.The Treasury also reiterated its commitment to improving business confidence. The government remains committed to making sure that its work with business, labour and civil society continues in order to improve business confidence and implement structural reforms to accelerate inclusive growth. S&amp;P Global Ratings cut South Africa s sovereign credit rating to junk yesterday after meeting at the weekend to discuss President Jacob Zuma s midnight Cabinet reshuffle on Thursday. S&amp;P said the reshuffle posed a risk to fiscal policy. The downgrade reflects our view that the divisions in the ANC-led government that have led to changes in the executive leadership, including the finance minister, have put policy continuity at risk, S&amp;P said. This has increased the likelihood that economic growth and fiscal outcomes could suffer. It said that contingent liabilities to the state were rising and it was therefore lowering its long-term foreign currency sovereign credit rating to BB+ from BBB- and the long-term local currency rating to BBBfrom BBB. The negative outlook reflects our view that political risks will remain elevated this year and that policy shifts are likely which could undermine fiscal and economic growth outcomes more than we project. In practical terms, junk status means the cost of borrowing money will go up. Investment will also automatically flow out of the country as many global pension funds and asset managers are not allowed, according to their mandates, to invest in risky countries.Moody s will release its review on Friday while Fitch, which rates South Africa on the edge of junk, does not give notice of its reviews.S&amp;P s downgrading decision was announced while the ANC s top six officials were locked in a marathon meeting last night. ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said yesterday that while the past week had been a difficult time for the ruling party, assertions that President Jacob Zuma s removal from office was on the cards were incorrect.Kodwa said the party would be convening an extended national working committee (NWC) meeting today. The NWC discussion was postponed from yesterday as a result of the marathon top-six meeting. It s hypothetical and irrelevant. There is a lot of gossip and confusion. The leadership is talking, they must lock themselves in a room and emerge united, Kodwa said.He slammed opposition parties for trying to lobby ANC MPs to vote against Zuma in a proposed motion of no-confidence debate.BERNARD SATHEKGE AND BONOLO SELEBANO