South Africa and China yesterday pledged to forge stronger links for the purpose of tackling daunting problems of economic and social development.Speaking at the launch of the South Africa-China high level people-to-people exchange mechanism (PPEM) in Pretoria, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said South Africa and China should strengthen their resolve to tackle health challenges on the African continent. We must move forward to implement some of our flagship projects, including the production of generic drugs for HIV-Aids, tuberculosis, and malaria; strengthening of african centres for disease control and prevention (ACDC) and the five regional collaborating centres and strengthening of a dedicated China-Africa human resources for health programme to address Africa s human capital challenges, Motsoaledi said.He said Africa was at the crossroads where it had to decide whether to bury its head in the sand on the socio-economic challenges confronting it, or tackle them head on. Destiny has brought us to this crossroad where we as Africans can no longer afford the time for missed opportunities nor the luxury of multiple choices. We must move only in one direction and that is upwards. We must do so with the resolute determination to succeed. The purpose of the exchange programme is to cement mutual understanding between the people of South Africa and China and to enhance people-to-people exchanges and cooperation in areas such as culture, education, communication, health, science and technology, sport, tourism, women affairs and youth.Motsoaledi said there were pockets of success stories where Africa was beginning to turn the tide of poverty and disease around. For a long time since our independence, Africa was inexorably sucked downwards into the whirlpool of poverty, disease, despair and ignorance.We became the continent that others derisively referred to as the hopeless continent . However, in the last decade or so, the tide started to change as Africa began to rebrand itself and transformed its image as the next frontier for development and prosperity. There are a few bright spots in fighting some diseases. Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa said South Africa would continue to harness its rich cultural diversity in an effort to encourage nation building. Arts, culture and heritage grants us an opportunity to learn about each other s world view, belief systems and way of life of others, which is a critical part of creating a better world for all, Mthethwa said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za