The provincial government is committed to enhance the provision of sustainable healthcare by also constructing ideal hospitals and clinics.One of the state of the art hospitals is expected to be built along the N4 in Middelburg following the unpleasant condition of the Middelburg Hospital, which has been in existence for almost 78 years.Premier David Mabuza s spokesperson, Zibonele Mncwango, said the construction plan had already been approved by the executive council last week.Mncwango said the government was certain that the hospital would play an important role in speeding up healthcare services compared with the present one, which was in poor condition. The existing dilapidated Middelburg Hospital was originally built in 1938 and continuously expanded over the years with various sections of the hospital being constructed from time to time, Mncwango said. The hospital has 349 approved beds but only 247 beds are usable. Mncwango said the provincial government was also planning to rebuild another hospital in Mapulaneng near Bushbuckridge. Mapulaneng Hospital operates on an approved 252 beds while only having 269 usable beds. The new proposed hospital will have 365 beds. The hospital was founded by Swiss missionaries in 1936 and was known as Masana. It was later transferred to the then Lebowa government in 1976 and renamed Mapulaneng Hospital. It was later also transferred to the Mpumalanga government, Mncwango said.He said Mabuza s cabinet also approved the arrangements of a provincial summit aimed to address several issues, including the abuse of farm workers by their employers.The three-day meeting would be led by the provincial department of rural development land and environmental affairs in conjunction with the national Department of Rural Development and Land Reform in Mbombela between tomorrow and Thursday. The summit will seek to create a dialogue and attempt to find solutions to the challenges such as internal conflicts among land reform beneficiaries, assist in the productive utilisation of land. Other challenges which the summit is expected to deal with are the continuous violations of vulnerable farm workers and farm dwellers human rights by some farm owners thereby affecting farm productivity and safety on farms, Mncwango said.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za