MULTIPLY Titans coach Mark Boucher says it s not about him but the club after he guided them to a cup double this season. The Titans put the stamp on another outstanding season by lifting the Momentum One-Day Cup following their 236 runs victory over the Warriors at SuperSport Park on Friday in the final.The win adds to their T20 Challenge title they won in December while they were also runners-up to the Knights in the Sunfoil Series. Their road to success this season has been the quality and depth of talent at the club and Boucher was pleased with their achievement but that they must not rest on their laurels. I m blessed to have the number of quality cricketers that I ve got here, Boucher said. It s not just the franchise guys or the Proteas that come back, but the system in the franchise is great. We ve had great guys from Easterns coming through and from the Northerns side. Whatever they are doing as far as the lower roots is concerned, is definitely working. We have got a host of players to select from. There are world class performers sitting out every game, which is tough. As long as they see it as Titans first, then we will go places as a franchise. After winning the toss and elected to bat, Titans posted mammoth 425 for five in their 50 overs. In reply, the Warriors were bowled out fir 189 in 31 overs and hand the title to the Titans. The Warriors also lost the T20 crown to the same opponents earlier in the season. With the squad they have, Boucher mentioned that it has also been difficult for him to pick a starting XI and the return of Proteas players AB de Villiers, Chris Morris and Morne Morkel sometimes. When you have guys like Morris and De Villiers coming back, it s difficult to leave them out, Boucher said. The focus was winning the competition not just the 11 guys on the field. We also had other guys like Rivaldo Moonsamu, Eldred Hawken, Tony de Zorsi all play their part throughout the competition. That s why we all have them in the dressing room with us celebrating. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza