Mystery surrounds the medical condition of Stuart Baxter and casts some doubt over his fitness to continue as coach of SuperSport United or as Bafana coach if appointed.Baxter is said to have finalised a deal with Safa to assume the vacant national team position, with an announcement expected in the coming days. Efforts to establish the extent of his ailment proved fruitless yesterday as his club declined to shed light on his condition, saying only that the Brit will miss the team s next two fixtures after being admitted for emergency treatment on Monday.This comes after he suffered clear discomfort throughout United s Nedbank Cup quarterfinal against Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday, enough to possibly render him incapable of guiding his team at what is a critical stage of the season. But he could be in his last days as United mentor as Safa are, according to a reliable source, waiting to announce him as the new Bafana coach. Baxter has apparently agreed to return to the post he held from 2004 to 2005. Talks have been completed and the two parties have finalised a deal. Baxter should be announced as the new coach by next week at the latest, the source said. His club has agreed to release him and it s only a matter of days before his appointment is made public. Baxter is expected to miss this weekend s match against Chiefs. United have agreed to an early termination of Baxter s contract should he take up the Bafana job. But it also emphasised such an appointment would only be effective at the end of the PSL season. Safa have ceased to comment on the matter, at least until the official announcement is made, but Safa president Danny Jordaan has previously expressed the anxiety the impending announcement had caused all concerned. I m as anxious as everyone to move away from the question of who is the coach, Jordaan said. It has generated so much interest and discussion. I go to the bank and the security personnel would walk me out and ask who is the coach? . The question is an indication of how much people everywhere are interested in the national team. -Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za