The month of April will forever resonate in the hearts and minds of South Africans as the month we took our first brave steps along our democratic journey.On April 27, 1994, millions of South Africans, both black and white, voted, most for the first time. In that triumphant moment, the dream of freedom that so many had fought and died for finally became tangible.It brought the full realisation home for the first time to so many that indeed, as former president Nelson Mandela would say, quoting from his favourite poem, Invictus: I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul. It marked the birth of our new nation out of the ashes of apartheid subjugation.This turning point in our history gave birth to our freedom and our constitutional democracy. It was also the first time we hoisted the new flag, which now stands as a proud beacon of our unity in diversity.Given that our struggle was long and hard, we should never forget that the South Africa of apartheid was defined by the distorted relationship of oppressor and oppressed.This had begun with colonial rule as brute force; it was reinforced with colonial education and it became the segregationist policies of successive colonial and apartheid administrations with a resort to violence when other means of subjugation failed.Ours was a country ravaged by divisions that were social, racial, ethnic, gendered and economic, among others.It was a country where the lines between black and white were geographically inscribed upon the landscape through forced removals, the creation of bantustans, where roads, fences, hedges and barbed wire determined your destiny and where a white skin became a passport to power and prosperity while black people suffered the fate of powerlessness and poverty.Generations of freedom fighters gave their lives to bring an end to this apartheid system. We should never forget that our freedom was not free; it was achieved through the sacrifices of countless patriots who fought tirelessly to secure our freedom and democracy.We owe an unpayable debt to patriots such as struggle stalwart Oliver Reginald Tambo, affectionately known as Comrade OR.This year s celebration of Freedom Day coincides with the centenary of the birth of Tambo, who was steadfast in his resolve for a liberated South Africa. While in exile he rallied the global community against the apartheid state and spearheaded international sanctions to bring about change. In his labour for the country s political freedom, he advocated that without the accompanying economic emancipation of millions of South Africans, our hard-fought liberty would have little meaning.He reminded us of the need for total liberation when he said: It is therefore a fundamental feature of our strategy that victory must embrace more than formal political democracy and our drive towards national emancipation must include economic emancipation. Sadly this giant of our freedom and liberation never got to see his dream of a free and democratic South Africa within his lifetime.But his legacy, and that of so many others, continues to shape our quest for a better tomorrow. Our transition in 1994 brought peace which is a prerequisite for reconstruction. With peace came the establishment of a new nation with a common nationhood and a quest for unity and cohesion which is fundamental to social stability.Thereafter we began to establish a steady framework and strong pillars to sustain democracy and the building of a united, democratic, non-racial, non-sexist and prosperous South Africa.Today as a result of a journey of 23 years, we are making great strides.Over four million houses have been built since 1994, 17 million people benefit from social grants, R32bn is being allocated to support higher education. All these initiatives begin to address economic transformation.But the fact remains that only eight million hectares of arable land have been transferred to black ownership. The number of black-owned South African companies on the JSE Stock Exchange is only at 10%. Representation of Africans at top management is at 10%.The full deracialisation of the economy has a long way to go. Many might have thought that becoming a democracy was the destination, but in reality it was a milestone.All democracies demand constant renewal and the support of all citizens for it to flourish.Therefore this April we again take stock of how far we have come as a democracy.While there are still many challenges, conditions have fundamentally improved for millions of South Africans. Yet our victory song is an unfinished song. The damage runs deep and the long-term impact of discriminatory measures that elevated the socio-economic status of one group at the expense of another are still highly visible today.While we build this nation on centre stage, some racists still wait in the wings, emboldened by the privileges they had in the past and the profits they still derive in the present. The government is therefore working towards an inclusive economy that will ensure prosperity of all in our society.Our country s economic transformation is about positive change that is guided by the Constitution to create a society that has equal opportunities across all areas. This is the dream we had long before the start of our democracy.This is the dream Tambo and his comrades dedicated their lives to achieving. We can make it a reality by together addressing the triple threat of poverty, inequality and unemployment. A society plagued by economic inequality, spatial divisions and a lack of social cohesion is not sustainable.The poet Langston Hughes reminds us of this when he posed the question: What happens to a dream deferred? His ultimate answer is: Does it explode? Together we need to unlock the cultural, social and economic capital of all South Africans.By doing so we will lay the foundations for a better tomorrow, where all citizens of our nation stand to benefit. Importantly, we must intensify our work towards breaking down both the real and artificial barriers of culture, race, gender, ethnicity and class, that still divide us.We need to reinforce the mental frameworks for emancipation, and strengthen the cultural pillar of our democracy in order to reinforce economic change. After 23 years there is much to celebrate, but work remains, and it s up to this generation to sharpen the tools and take this freedom forward.Nathi MthethwaNathi Mthethwa is minister of Arts and Culture