The absence of Abbubaker Mobara could affect the rhythm of Orlando Pirates, though the team have strength in numbers to pull off a vital league win against Baroka FC tonight. Mobara, a vital cog in the team undergoing transformation under Kjell Jonevret, will sit out the home match at Orlando Stadium through suspension after picking up four yellow cards.Even though Jonevret has adequate weaponry in his arsenal to plug the hole in midfield, it s the efficiency of the ever-improving Mobara that might be missing in Bucs attack.The SA international set Bucs on course for a quarterfinal 2-1 victory over Bloemfontein Celtic with an exquisite opening goal at the weekend. And even in various roles, the 22-year-old Capetonian has been adept in influencing results for the Soweto giants. Jonevret is keen to quickly consolidate a top-eight spot to avoid the pressures of the late season run-in. All the teams down there on the log have to get points to avoid getting relegated, Jonevret said. Hopefully the cup win will give us confidence going forward because these guys have played a lot of football and they are a bit nervous, but we have to fight all the way. It s going to be a hard race because you can see that there isn t much difference between the clubs around us and those at the bottom. It s not easy to beat Highlands and SuperSport, for example, we know it s going to be tough, given our tight schedule. But wins like this can give us the confidence we need to make the best of the season. Jonevret had special praise for Mobara s goal against Celtic, saying he was pleased with how the goal was executed. I d spoken to him (Mobara) about making those runs into the area and I m glad at how he responded, the coach said. The Swede will have to rejig his team to plug the void in midfield where Mobara operated with such aplomb alongside Issa Sarr and Oupa Manyisa in their last encounter. It could well be an opportunity for Thabo Qalinge to seize and impress Jonevret, who has shown some faith in the injuryprone midfielder.It doesn t get any easier for Bucs as they come up against relegation-haunted Baroka, a team bottom of the log with 21 points after 11 defeats. The Limpopo side have often spoiled for a fight against illustrious sides and you can expect them to throw everything at the Buccaneers to gain maximum points.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za