Infuential left-leaning economist Chris Malekane is heading to the Treasury as an economic adviser to Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, in a move that could inject some zest into radical economic transformation.Malekane is an associate professor of economics at Wits University and a former Cosatu economist. He was among those who spearheaded the drafting of the National Development Plan, SA s economic blueprint. In an interview with The New Age Malekane yesterday confirmed that he was in talks with Gigaba. We are still discussing the matter, Malekane said. The minister approached me. For now, it s too early to say anything more, he said.People close to Malekane say the idea of a state bank will now move off the back burner given that Malekane has been vocal in favour. In fact, the issue of a state bank led him to pull out of the National Planning Commission (NPC) when other commissioners rejected the idea. Recently Malekane punted that the fall of institutions such as the National Empowerment Fund (NEF) had been long coming as the government had failed to introduce a state bank.Further, he stressed that all institutions such as the Land Bank, IDC, NEF and other government funding agencies are a bomb waiting to explode since they don t have the kind of monetary backing that a state bank could bring. The most worrying part is the fact that the banking sector is sitting with more than a trillion rands in cash, and these are white monopoly banks.As a result, we have state institutions that are cash strapped and can t push for economic transformation. We need a state bank that is directly linked to the Reserve Bank, Malekane said. The likes of NEF, Land Bank, IDC and other related institutions need to be branches of the state bank, which needs to be monopoly in the banking system, he told The New Age earlier this year. How are you going to finance black industrialists if you don t have your own bank? Without it, forget economic empowerment of black people, Malekane said.He said he raised these issues while working for the NPC. The left-leaning economist was also vocal on issues relating to black-owned banks, saying it would happen only if the economy was in black hands. He called for Absa to be nationalised when it came to light that Bankcorp, which Absa subsequently took over, was given a lifeboat by the Reserve Bank during apartheid. Analyst Duma Gqubule said it was a good move to bring the likes of Malekane into the Treasury. We need new voices. Many people at Treasury are on the right whereas Malekane is more left and likely to bring some real radical changes to the economy, he said. Malekane has said a shake up in the state-owned entities was required to create jobs.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za