BEING at the summit of the Premier Soccer League is a great feeling for any coach but Bidvest Wits Gavin Hunt is not reading too much into it as he said there is still a lot of football to be played.Wits returned to the top of the log following their 2-0 victory over Platinum Stars at the Bidvest Stadium on Saturday. Highly rated youngster Phakamani Mahlambi scored the first goal of the match with the second one coming from the experienced Daine Klate.From 20 matches this season, The Clever Boys have managed to collect 41 points and they still have two games in hand. Hunt believes celebrating being at the top now will be premature as they still have a lot of work to do if Wits are to win their first league title. It doesn t mean anything to be at the top at the moment. We still have 10 games to play so it s going to be tight now and we have another two cup games coming this week. That is big for us, Hunt said.Wits are still in the CAF Confederations Cup, where they are due to host Egyptian side Smouha at the weekend. Despite the victory, Hunt doesn t think Wits played their best football and believes injuries are not helping his side in their league campaign. It wasn t a pretty performance, we had chances and Platinum had theirs but I think we had the best chances. We didn t play well, Hunt said. We are not looking a bit strong at the moment, we look weak with a number of players out with injuries. Nazir Allie broke his foot at training last week. He will be out for six weeks. He has been our best player and one of the best players in South Africa, I think. He has been steady and consistent so that is a big blow for us. Allie s place was taken by the 19-year-old Reeve Frosler, who managed to impress his coach with a sterling performance on the right back. The youngster came in and I think he was excellent, he was one of our better players. Wits will face Jomo Cosmos tomorrow in the Last 16 of Nedbank Cup at Tsakane Stadium at 7.30pm. In the other PSL match yesterday, Bloemfontein Celtic claimed a 1-0 victory over Polokwane City away. Lyle Lakay s 74 minute goal was enough to help Celtic to move from 15 to 12 but they are not yet out of the relegation zone.sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Siuthembiso Dindi