BUS commuters Easter plans may be thrown into disarray if a bus driver national shutdown from today over a wage dispute is not resolved. Pilgrims, especially those from the Zion Christian Church embarking on a trip to Moria are likely to be the hardest hit by the strike, as many of them rely on the Putco bus service.The South African Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu) and at least two other unions have downed tools from today demanding improved working conditions and a salary increase of 15%. Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi said there was no plan in place to cushion the blow of the bus strike and if no solution was found soon this would have dire consequences. Bus drivers can grind buses to a halt and we are going to be in trouble. We hope the unions and the bus associations can reach an amicable solution because if there is no solution, millions of people are going to struggle and we do not have a plan B, he said. The minister was speaking during a road safety campaign at the Wanderers taxi rank in Johannesburg.He and community safety MEC Sizakele NkosiMalobane and transport MEC Ismail Vadi were on a drive to warn drivers about the importance of keeping safe on the roads this Easter holidays. This is the time of the year where many people go home to enjoy Easter with their families and they also go on a pilgrimage, he said.Vadi said plans had been made for bus commuters to travel today but further arrangements would have to be made going forward. As far as I understand, the strike notice was only for one day, April 12, so we have made arrangements with the taxi associations to increase the number of taxis on the road. Also commuters have been asked to make alternative arrangements.Should the strike go beyond today we will have to look at a plan B to make alternative arrangements, Vadi said. Satawu, however, said the strike would go on until it got the results that it wanted. Union spokesperson Zanele Sabela said: We understand that if you are on your way somewhere this weekend you would have already bought a ticket. This could have been solved quicker if the employer was willing to come to the table. lillians@thenewage.co.za-Lilian Selapisa