Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has thrown down the gauntlet saying that he will not tolerate indiscipline within the ranks of the police following reports that sacked Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza intends returning to duty today.Mbalula warned yesterday that if Ntlemeza came to the office he would see him there. The law will be executed. We don t need the drama. I m not going to entertain what Gen Ntlemeza is saying to the press. There is no stand-off. I m the minister of police not Ntlemeza. This follows a Sunday newspaper report claiming Ntlemeza intended to report for duty on Tuesday and will petition the Supreme Court of Appeal to get his job back.Last week the High Court in Pretoria dismissed his application for leave to appeal which meant he had to vacate his office with immediate effect.Ntlemeza was appointed permanently to the position by former police minister Nathi Nhleko in September 2015, despite judge Elias Matojane having found that the general lacks integrity and honour and had lied under oath.Mbalula appointed Lt-Gen Yolisa Matakata as the new acting head of the Hawks and indicated a permanent head would be appointed soon. The move was criticised by some who argued that Matakata, was part of the panel that had appointed Ntlemeza.Hawks spokesperson Brig Hangwani Mulaudzi said the narrative that Matakata was influential in the appointment of Ntlemeza was devoid of any truth and should be condemned in the strongest terms. For the record, Matakata was merely a member of the secretariat for the saidpanel that was responsible for interviewingall the candidates and not Ntlemeza alone as it is being alleged. Matakata therefore had no influence whatsoever on the appointment of the successful candidate. She is an impeccable and competent leader. She has a long service history in the elite unit. Her work speaks for itself, he said.Mbalula said: As the minister of police, I want the DPCI to have unity of purpose, it must inspire confidence in our people. DPCI must be that armed elite unit that is clinical in the way it executes its work, in short it must be the pride of our people. 701270TNA REPORTER