Stuart Baxter could be unveiled as the new Bafana Bafana coach as early as tomorrow. Baxter has been negotiating with Safa with the view to taking over the job which has attracted many suitors, but so far remains unoccupied.And, according to Safa president Danny Jordaan, it s only a matter of when and not if, the new coach puts pen to paper. We are very close. We ve finalised the contractual negotiations. It s now a question of putting a signature and announce the coach, Jordaan said. It should be by tomorrow. I personally hope so. We are at the point where people must just put a signature. That should take one or two days and we make the announcement. I m as anxious as everyone to move away from the question of who is the coach. It has generated much interest. I go to the bank and the security personnel would walk me out and ask who is the coach? I can t go to the bank and church and answer the same question. But I think the question is an indication the people are interested in the national team. Baxter, the incumbent SuperSport United coach, has been permitted to negotiate with Safa.But Jordaan could not over-emphasise the sheer size of the task awaiting the new coach. I hope the incoming coach will harness all the resources we have. We have to do two things. We have to look at the immediate success which is to qualify for the 2018 World Cup and the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. But we also have the Cosafa and the Chan tournaments where we have to give the young players the opportunity to graduate to the senior Bafana Bafana team. I hope the coach will manage the transition.It s going to be a challenging task for him. Baxter also expressed his wish for things to be speeded up. He faces a daunting trip to Liberia where United are due to play their CAF Confederation Cup first-leg tie against Barrack Young Controllers this weekend and, seemingly, Baxter would want to travel with a clear mind. There is a time frame and we ve got to be clear because I want to tell my club what s happening, Baxter said. Either they will be happy to see me go or have me there, but I will be pleased if we finalise things before we go to Liberia. United, however, have also said they would prefer to release Baxter at the end of the season, as they are challenging for the league, among other competitions.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za