Business confidence fell in March from February and that was before most of the political tension of the past few days played out, so further declines are likely.President Jacob Zuma s decision to fire Pravin Gordhan as finance minister has rattled markets and led S&amp;P Global Ratings to downgrade SA s foreign currency debt to junk status. Fitch and Moody s has warned of possible consequences, with Fitch saying on Monday it was placing South Africa on review for a downgrade.The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Sacci) BCI for March, saw the index pulled back by 1.7 points to 93.8, from 95.5 in February. This is the first month since November 2016 that the index declined yearon-year for three consecutive months in December 2016, January, February 2017. Towards the end of March, developments extraneous to the economy abruptly upset the momentum of further improving business confidence, Sacci CEO Alan Mukoki said. However, last month s outcome does not yet capture the full impact of uncertainty that was created by the recent Cabinet reshuffle, Mukoki said. He said the latest events dented the renewed positive motion of the BCI after the uncertain business climate last year. The developments of the Cabinet reshuffle and the release of the downgrading, at this stage mainly impacting on the exchange rate and capital markets, would have knocked 0.6 index points off the BCI to read 93.2. If the rand continues on these exchange rate levels, the index could therefore shed another 0.6 index points in April. Taking into account that no further repercussions will follow on the reshuffling of the Cabinet, South Africa s credit rating will not deteriorate further, he said.Further, the index revealed that the year-on-year changes in the sub-indices show that the business climate deteriorated from February to March, however, the first quarter of this year BCI was still 2.6 index points better than the same period last year. Economist Richard Downing said the stronger rand exchange rate made the largest positive year-on-year contribution to the BCI, followed by lower inflation. All indications are that economic growth will depend on whether fiscal consolidation will prevail while prudent public sector governance continues.It is important that there is adherence to the advice of the credit rating agencies to keep attending to serious structural economic deficiencies. Tenacity among business will prevail while business strongly believes that some measure of prudence is exercised to avoid the subsequent knock-on effect as such decisions are likely to have on the economy of our country, he said.He said on the political front it is Sacci s call as a business formation that there be cooperative partnership in managing sensitivities that might adversely impact our risk profile in international markets. The rand has weakened more than 12% since March 27, when Gordhan was called back home from an international investor road show.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za