Adapt or die was yesterday s appeal of the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) subcommittee on organisational development.Briefing journalists on the ruling party s policy discussion document on organisational renewal and organisational design in Johannesburg, committee chairperson Fikile Mbalula said for the ANC to keep pace with political modernisation, it had to retain some of its historical characteristics while opening itself up to new ways of functioning.It is for this he said that the ANC needed to review its electoral processes to sift credible leaders from those of dubious character. We need leaders with impeccable track records and how are we going to go about electing those leaders? That is why we have the notion of a revolutionary council. If you are in a slate, you can be elected without being properly examined and not even being known by branches of the ANC. You can be elected and become a powerful leader and we ask ourselves, where does he come from? When he has already been elected because he is a product of a slate. The revolutionary electoral council will be able to say for all the nominations done, who are these people? Mbalula said.Mbalula s comments come against the background of the ANC having conceded that the party s succession debate has in recent years become a thorn in the side of the ruling party. The ANC s leadership race for the its December elective process, despite it not being open for discussion, has been gaining momentum in the full glare of the public.Mbalula also conceded to the point of slate politics having come to characterise the party s electoral processes . He admitted that the ANC has been remiss in tackling the problem. What have we done about slates? We have not done anything about slates. Slates are continuing unabated. I can stand in front of you and speak like a bishop and then speak like I m best and meantime I am actually responsible for factions. So the revolutionary council will enable us to unpack the question of leadership, so that we don t elect fly-by-nights. Can t we infuse in the electoral processes for people to openly express their desire to lead and stop printing funny T-shirts? Mbalula, making reference to how its Revolutionary Electoral Commission will be constituted, said ANC veterans and stalwarts were the best placed ANC members to sit on this commission. Where will council members come from? They will come from the ranks of the veterans of the ANC. Our characterisation of the veterans are people who don t have vested interests because they don t want to lead in the organisation. The revolutionary council must have people who are capable. Those who really understand the ANC and who don t have an interest to stand in the structures of the organisation anymore. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za