TENSIONS between the ANC and SACP spilled out in the full glare of the public at the memorial service of slain SACP struggle icon Chris Hani yesterday in Boksburg. Tensions reached boiling point when SACP second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila was repeatedly booed and heckled as he stood on the podium to give a message of support to the Hani family.His speech was, however, cut short due to inclement weather. A mortified Mapaila said: The incident that happened particularly when we were doing the wreath laying was quite unfortunate. We were aware about that, we know the people who tried to plan it. Mapaila s response to his hostile reception comes against the background of calls for restraint and tolerance during memorial services. However the call appeared to have fallen on deaf ears. Speaking earlier reverend Joseph Maphatsoe, in an apparent swipe at civil society organisation Save SA, said he would not allow Hani s memorial to be used as a platform for political mudslinging among ANC heavyweights. Our prayer is not save South Africa , it s defend South Africa , he said.President Jacob Zuma later took to the podium to slam the wave of last week s countrywide protests against his leadership. He said some of the marches reeked of racist undertones. The marches that took place last week demonstrated that racism is real and exists in our country. Many placards and posters displayed beliefs that we thought had been buried in 1994, with some posters depicting black people as being lesser human beings or subhuman. The racist onslaught has become more direct and is no longer hidden as was the case in the early years of our constitutional democratic order. Racists no longer fear being caught or exposed, Zuma said.Hani s widow, Limpho Hani, declared her support for the ANC: I do not belong to a faction. I am a member of the ANC and there is only one ANC. I refuse to play into the hands of those who say: What would Chris say? What is know is, Chris was a loyal and disciplined cadre. Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe said the organisation would resist any attempts to remove Zuma from office. Regime change is not going to succeed in South Africa. We ll even go to the streets to defend Zuma. Don t be confused by some of our friends, who are marching with the enemy, he said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za-Bonolo Selebano