The Beitbridge border post appears to be steeped in corruption at all levels from under-the-table pay offs, smuggling of goods, to illegal forex exchange and border jumping.The New Age spent two days at the border post and witnessed the rot at the border, some of it happening right under the noses of the authorities.At the South African border gate there is a thriving illegal forex exchange racket running alongside the unscrupulous act of faking immigration stamps. A syndicate operating outside the border does fake departure and visa extension stamps on travellers passports.Police responsible for manning the entrance into arguably the continent s busiest border post are just about 50m from these traders. We re aware that outside the gate there are people with duplicate immigration stamps and people pay R150 for the stamp. The challenge they have is that when they pay for the fake stamps, their information is not captured on the system, an immigration officer said.A man who identified himself as Mhosva Rugare, lives in Dulibadzimu, a Beitbridge township and crosses the border every day to work outside the border gate. He is a bicycle transporter and carries people and their goods to a hiking spot. We work here so it makes no sense to be stamping passports every day because the pages will be finished so we pay the police R10 just to allow us in. They now know us, he said.Like the agents involved in bribing officials on behalf of desperate travellers wanting their visitor s visas, illegal forex dealers also conduct their deals in the open outside the border.A cross-border trader, Mbonisi Nkomo, said corruption had become normal and often, law enforcement agents looked away when they saw it. It s all normal here, everything is done in the open and the authorities seem not to care at all, Nkomo said.Limpopo provincial police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe pleaded ignorance when asked about the activities. We are not aware of this but people can use our Crime Stop number to report on any illegal activities, he said.Zimbabweans have also found a way around the ban on imports of some goods into the neighbouring country by crossing the Limpopo river and using donkeys to ferry goods. The Zimbabwean government introduced an import ban on various goods early last year to promote local products.A young man who identified himself as Fana said he made a living out of transporting goods across the Limpopo river and helping people cross the river into or out of South Africa illegally. I make a living out of this I charge R50 to help a person cross with their bags. On a good day, I can help 20 people, Fana said.Chairperson of the Musina Chamber of Commerce, Joe Lukhele, said they had highlighted the issues with the authorities in Limpopo as they felt there was a security risk. He said the activities were costing the economy dearly. The country becomes a joke if our borders are going to be used like this. We can t fight the war for the government, that would be irresponsible of us because we won t be protected, Lukhele said.Home Affairs spokesperson Thabo Mokgola had not reverted with a comment at the time of going to print.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za