Blitzbokke missed Seabelo Senatla in their embarrassing 22-0 loss to Fiji in the final of the Hong Kong Sevens that they have never won before.Neil Powell s side waltzed to the final on the back of fantastic wins against the US, New Zealand and Kenya, to name a few. It was in the final where they lacked the killer instinct that Senatla always provided. The winger is second on the try scoring charts with 32, trailing Dan Norton of England by one try despite missing the last three tournaments, when he moved to the Stormers for the Super Rugby competition.Only Siviwe Soyizwapi tried to provide some attacking spark along with Werner Kok, but their lack of blistering pace that Senatla has saw them fail to score even a single point in losing 22-0. In the end, Powell was forced to rue inexperience, but was happy to leave Hong Kong still top of the standings with 145 points, with the Fijians second on 122 with three tournaments left. We did very well, considering the inexperience we had in our squad and the fact that we were without a number of star players. We managed to play five good games, but unfortunately we were just not good enough in the final, Powell said. I was a bit nervous as the pool stage could have derailed us. But I am content with what we achieved. It helped a lot for our confidence, but it is not something that we can feel at ease about. We need another strong performance in Singapore next weekend to keep the pressure on Fiji and England. To also head there still top of the log is great for us, the Blitzbokke coach said. Despite being exposed and annihilated in the final, Powell remained proud of his young charges and said they still have what it takes to do great things for the team in future. It was one of the objectives we had a pre-season and I am happy that we could do that. I wanted to give the younger guys more chances on the field and in matches. They can do great things on the training field, but they only learn from the mistakes they make while playing out there. So that was another box ticked for us, Powell said. South Africa will now make their way to Singapore, where they will play in Pool B with England, France and Japan.-Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za