The African National Congress (ANC) in Limpopo has called on the community of Vuwani to refrain from acts of violence and destruction of property in protest against the Demarcation Board&#8217;s decision. The ANC provincial secretary in Limpopo Nocks Seabi on Wednesday said: PEC notes threats of violence from the Vuwani area.&#8221; He further added that the Provincial executive committee calls on ANC branches in Vuwani to take centre stage and demonstrate leadership in the community.&#8221; He also said the Provincial executive committee resolved that a PEC Task Team that has been established, PEC deployees to Vhembe and Lim345, which is the code of the newly established municipality and regional leaders, shall continue to engage the community to find a solution. Seabi also called on the police to be on high alert. The PEC also calls on SAPS to exercise outmost vigilance in the area (Vuwani). The town experienced violent and destructive protest action in the past that left a number of schools damaged and some completely burnt down. The Police have deployed extra personnel in the area to prevent the events of last year from happening again. The small Town of Vuwani is currently on a shut down with no government offices opened and business not operating as protests continue. Residents are protesting against the demarcation board&#8217;s decision to include parts of Vuwani into the newly established Municipality of Malamulele. Vuwani residents are demanding the demarcation board to reverse their decision to merge Vuwani and some surrounding areas to form the new Municipality. The Demarcation Board declined request for re-determination from Vuwani communities, they can only consider in normal scheduled period in 2021. Meanwhile, speaking about the allegations that the ANC in Limpopo was divided with some calling for the Premier Stanley Mathabatha to step down, the provincial secretary said the PEC reiterates that there&#8217;s no discussion within the PEC about a motion of no confidence against the Premier. He added that PEC is not aware of any PEC member who allegedly approached national officials to discuss a recall of the Premier. The ANC in Limpopo had a media briefing following the meeting of the provincial executive committee which was held on April 3. -TNA Reporter &nbsp;&nbsp;