Proteas coach Russell Domingo is likely to reapply for his position with the national team when his contract expires at the end of August.Cricket South Africa announced earlier this year that it will advertise the position of head coach after the England series and the ICC Champions Trophy. Since then, Domingo has been undecided about his future with the team but revealed yesterday during the squad announcement for the England tour and Champions Trophy that he is likely to reapply for his post. He replaced Gary Kirsten in 2013. There is still a process that needs to take place. My fishing buddies have encouraged me to try and throw my name in the hat, Domingo said. Whether I do or not, the process needs to take place and I need to follow it. I have loved my four years in the national team and it is every coach s dream to coach a national team. It is every coach s dream to have an opportunity to win the World Cup. I had that opportunity in the 50 overs format and we came close. If I m fortunate I would love to have another opportunity to do it. But it is not in my control. Whether I do put my name in the hat is not clearly that important. The process needs to take place and that s what is important. Domingo said that he remained committed to South African cricket and if he is deployed to another job he will gladly accept it, but his focus now remains on preparing the team for the Champions Trophy in England. I will like to stay but the powers above me will decide, I m fully committed to South African cricket, Domingo said. People who make the decisions are the ones who are important. I know what I like to do, I love to be involved in South African cricket whether it is a national side, academy side or franchise, my passion is cricket. With ODI captain AB de Villiers struggling with a back injury in the ongoing Indian Premier League, Domingo is hopeful that he will be fit for the tournament. We haven t thought too much about AB s injury yet, we are assuming all our squad members will be fit. If one of them is not fit, there is a spare batsman in the group and we have got options outside the national squad that can be considered. Squad: Hashim Amla, Quinton de Kock, Faf du Plessis, AB de Villiers, JP Duminy, David Miller, Chris Morris, Wayne Parnell, Andile Phehlukwayo, Kagiso Rabada, Imran Tahir, Dwaine Pretorius, Keshav Maharaj, Farhaan Behardien and Morne Morkel.-NEVILLE KHOZA