After weeks of ducking and diving, trying to side-step questions over his future, the Lions have confirmed that Johan Ackermann is to leave the franchise.Ackermann, who guided the Johannesburg outfit to Currie Cup title success and a final appearance in last year s Super Rugby competition, will join English side Gloucester next season. On the same day that the Lions announced that Ackermann will be leaving, Gloucester also released a statement of their own, speaking of their delight at acquiring one of world rugby s most exciting coaches.Ackermann, who will leave at the end of the Super Rugby season, said he had to take up the overseas offer to improve and grow as a coach. I have come to a crossroad in my career and believe that my coaching journey needs to change in order for me to grow as a coach, Ackermann said. The 46-year-old former Springbok lock has been in charge of the Lions since 2013, taking charge of the side in a total of 112 matches, with 57 coming in Super Rugby and 55 in the Currie Cup.Of those matches, Ackermann has guided the side to 34 Super Rugby victories, losing 24 and drawing once. His stock rose tremendously by being named SA coach of the year for the last three years in succession. Gloucester director of rugby David Humphreys described the acquisition of Ackermann as significant and said he was sold on the former lock s proven record. We re all delighted that Johan has agreed to become the next head coach of Gloucester Rugby. He is one of the top coaching talents in world rugby and it s a significant coup for the club to recruit someone of his calibre, Humphreys said on the club s website. When we first spoke to Johan, we were struck by the enthusiasm and energy he displayed to take up the challenge at Gloucester and, once we had met with him, we knew he was the person we wanted to take the club forward. We were particularly impressed by his proven ability to take a team that has under-performed and turn them into championship contenders.Their year-on-year progression has been impressive and they are continuing that upward trend this season. The Lions will now have to fast-track their search for a new coach ahead of the Currie Cup-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE