 MY LIFE will never be the same again, says Andronica Mokhothu, 48, from Ikageng whose life was turned upside down after undergoing an operation to remove a tumour at 1 Military Hospital in Tshwane in 2010.Her facial nerve was severed during the procedure, leaving her facially disfigured. Mokhothu who lost the use of part of her face, said: I can longer attend gatherings that I used to attend before like funerals with other women and my face is a painful reminder of how my life changed that day. She was speaking following a lengthy malpractice law suit in which the North Gauteng High Court ruled in her favour last month. The court found that staff who attended to her were 100% negligent and that the minister of Defence and Military Veterans should pay for her legal expenses.The mother of four who is a sole breadwinner, said she first went to the hospital in 2010 due to discomfort in her left ear, where a tumour was discovered. It was not an easy road, I have been in and out of doctors offices during the investigations since 2012, she said.Mokhothu said living with a partially paralysed face made her life a living hell. You can imagine the pain I go through on a daily basis because my left eye cannot blink so it gets irritated and dry and going outside is a problem for me. Yes I finally won the case but at the price of my life which will never be the same again, she said. Despite winning the case, it will take time before she receives her compensation. Mokhothu s is one of the ballooning cases of malpractice lawsuits threatening to bring the public and private health sectors to its knees.Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has said a solution was needed urgently. Sunelle van Heerden of Christopher Consulting, the law firm which represented Mokhothu, said more and more malpractice cases in court were proof that it was a growing problem. We all have a reasonable expectation that we will be safe in the hands of skilled doctors and nurses, she said.leratod@thenewage.co.za-Lerato Diale