Four people died and six others were injured in a horrific accident along the N12 between Potchefstroom and Klerksdorp on Saturday night.Two cars collided and the victims who died were all travelling in the same car.ER24 paramedics rushed to the scene and managed to treat the injured and transport them to hospitals for further treatment.ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said when paramedics arrived at the scene, they found two wrecked cars in the middle of the road, some distance apart. Upon closer inspection, paramedics found the bodies of three adults and a young child, all lying in the one vehicle. Unfortunately, all four patients had sustained fatal injuries. Nothing could be done for them and they were declared dead on the scene, Meiring said.He said six other patients were found on the scene. Assessment showed that the injuries sustained ranged from minor to moderate. Paramedics treated the patients and thereafter transported them to nearby hospitals for further treatment.The cause of the collision is not yet known but local authorities were on scene for further investigations. Following the latest incident, the number of people who have died on North West roads since the beginning of April has increase to more than 30.Community safety and transport management MEC Dr Mokgantshang Motlhabane expressed grief at the deaths, especially after one of the bloodiest Easter weekends.Motlhabane bemoaned that in most instances, lives are lost due to avoidable behaviour. It is with concern that we have experienced tragic accidents like the one that took place in Rooigrond, near Mahikeng. The accident involved three cars and it left one person dead while four survived with critical injuries, Motlhabane said. The accident happened in the afternoon when a Toyota RunX with an expired license disc collided with a Toyota SUV Land Cruiser with a Botswana registration. It is alleged that the RunX, travelling from Lichtenburg to Mahikeng, overtook a number of vehicles on a barrier line at the time of the collision. Motlhabane said the road where the accident took place was under construction with clear markings for a reduced speed limit. The third car involved in the accident was a Ford ST. The driver of Ford ST veered off the road and disembarking badly onto an incomplete lowered gravel surface area while trying to avoid the collision. The driver of the RunX was certified dead on the scene before jaws of life equipment could be used to remove his trapped body. The four passengers who sustained serious injuries were rushed to Mahikeng Provincial Hospital. Five occupants of the SUV and the three in the Ford sustained slight injuries. Some of these tragic accidents are indeed an indictment on our efforts to reduce fatalities and blatant disobedience of the rules of the road. Motlhabane said the department would continue to do its best to reduce lawlessness on the roads. Motlhabane said motorists and passengers should also do their part to remind one another that speed kills. Unroadworthy cars are hazardous, reckless driving is forbidden, drinking and driving is not allowed. We always urge our road users to take a comfort rest and leg stretch every 200km or two hours. Road Accident Fund spokesperson Ernest Nhuna said the organisation has quickly stepped in to ease the pain of families and relatives of those who died tragically during Easter.Nkuna said assistance was also being provided to injured survivors. A range of traffic incidents was reported at the long weekend, including the death of several bus passengers in KwaZulu-Natal near Nkandla after a bus believed to be transporting people to a traditional wedding went down a steep embankment. Meanwhile, eight people were killed in the Western Cape when a car overtook vehicles in the face of oncoming traffic and collided head-on with a bus on the N7 outside Klawer, Nkuna said. The RAF KZN and Western Cape regional offices will be meeting with family members of the deceased in order to urgently originate funeral support claims for the deceased who qualify and meet the required criteria. Consultations will continue with the bereaved families after the burials to originate claims for loss of support for the surviving dependents and qualifying heads of damages for the injured as stipulated in the RAF Act. ELFAS TORERAI AND OBAKENG MAJEelfast@thenewage.co.za