Executive pay cheques for CEOs, especially in the banking sector, have come under scrutiny again this week, following Standard Bank s report that it has paid its joint CEOs a whopping R45m each for last year, an increase of 3% from previous years.Over the years Cosatu, the Black Management Forum (BMF) and other organisations have been vocal in rejecting obscene executive pay and calling for such practices to be rooted out. Cosatu spokesperson Zizwe Pamla said there was no justification for bank executives to pay themselves such exorbitant salaries in the face of the King Report guidelines introduced by the national Treasury in 2001.The King Report on Corporate Governance is a ground-breaking booklet of guidelines for the governance structures and operation of companies in South Africa. New regulation is urgently needed. The Treasury failed over the years and it s clear that it s serving the interests of the banking sector. Banks are not competing at all, but are more of an alliance fixing how much they charge consumers, Pamla said.But Laurence Grubb, anexecutive committee member at the South African Reward Association said remuneration is more of a shareholder issue. In fact, many remuneration committees are creating and implementing good remuneration policies, which consider all stakeholders. Companies are in business to make a profit, so overpaying executives is hardly likely to appeal to them. It may also not necessarily be an effective way to curb excessive executive pay. For example, Switzerland has a binding vote on its remuneration policy, but its CEOs are the best paid in Europe, Grubb said. Pamla said: South Africa is a developing nation and you can t compare it with rich nations. The 2014 Labour Research Service report on 89 listed companies executive remuneration, the average minimum wage for workers in 2013 was calculated at R3 738 a month, or R44856 a year, while the average for executive directors was R5.5m and for CEOs R6.8m. Cosatu also said the recent tax increase in the highest marginal tax rate to 45% was a step in the right direction but was not enough.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za