The IAAF have dangled a juicy cash carrot in front of athletes eager to break world records at the upcoming World Relay Championships.But that hasn t been enough to entice Athletics South Africa (ASA) athletes, who are going full steam ahead to the SA Senior Athletics Championships in Potchefstroom this weekend. That just goes to show the high level of interest in the local championships, intensified by the regular banter among top athletes on social media over the last few weeks as a clever way of raising hype around the event. It s championship week!!! #FillupPotch is finally here. I hope you all are coming through to be part of history, Akani Simbine said on Twitter yesterday. Rio Olympics finalist Simbine has already laid down the marker for the sprinters as he dipped below 10 seconds to clock 9.93 in the 100m dash, before he went on to win the 200m in a personal best of 19.95 at the Athletics Gauteng North League meeting last month.Simbine s performance in the shorter sprint was 0.04 outside his own national senior record, but set the fastest time ever run in South Africa. He joined an exclusive club of the world s sub 10/20-second doubles, which includes Ato Bolton, Shawn Crawford and Justin Gatlin. In his Olympics debut last year, the 23-year-old Simbine finished with a time of 9.94 sec, just a few seconds shy of winner Usain Bolt and second-placed Justin Gatlin.Simbine hasn t been the only genuine threat to Olympic gold medallist Wayde Van Niekerk, who is also eyeing the 200m sprint, as youngsters Clarence Munyai and Gift Leotlela have punched above their weight since the season started. The exciting 19-yearold Munyai improved on the SA U-20 mark of 20.16 as he smashed the long-standing national junior record set by Riaan Dempers back in April 1995. Munyai has shown an impressive character, continuing from his great show of last season which made everyone sit up and watch this new kid on the block, ASA president Aleck Skhosana said. And Simbine must be commended with his coaches for again showing early season form, showing that he is almost ready to give us a greater performance. At the inaugural World Relay Championships edition in 2014, the Jamaican quartet set a record of 1:18.63, but a year later, the US team broke the records in both the men s and women s races. Simbine and company are now too preoccupied at home to travel to Nassau and chase the big bucks which shows South Africa s sprinters have definitely arrived.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage. co.za 