The ever-changing world of technology aims to make everything more accessible, faster and more convenient. Betway Sports is following suit by offering their customers a fantastic sports betting experience right at their fingertips with their innovative app.In the (not-so-distant) past, you had to put up with rowdy fanatics at the local TAAB if you wanted to check out the latest events and scores of your favourite sports; or you d have to wait till the weekend to get the week s fixtures, or go to extreme lengths to find a reliable bookie. These days, you can get everything you need for your sports betting entertainment anywhere, anytime on your mobile device. The Betway app is easy to navigate with crisp, clear graphics and a hassle-free interface for both the new and novice punter. In just a few clicks you can get up-to-date fixtures on your favourite soccer matches, see who ll be battling it out in the boxing ring, choose your winning basketball team before the final whistle blows, and so much more.With Betway Sports now available in South Africa, you get access to all the local sports updates and news, to easily bet on your favourite teams or events. The app is specially designed to make betting as fast and secure as possible. All you need to do is visit https://www.betway.co.za in your browser to access the site or download the app onto your handset. In a few, easy steps you can setup your personal account and instantly access information about soccer, tennis, boxing, basketball, F1 racing and so much more.Safe banking options make it convenient to select your event and make your deposits or withdraw your winnings whenever, wherever. Transactions are secure and processed hassle-free so your bets reflect immediately meaning you are always on top of your game. You can also view open bets, check your transaction summary and make payments right in the palm of your hand.Betway also shows you live scores as events occur, with a Live Ticker for a real-time gaming experience. There are loads of other online betting options like Premier League action for even bigger chances to win great cash prizes. The innovative app also offers Live Chat functionality where a dedicated support agent is always ready to assist with deposits and withdrawals, or more information and help.Betway