For a few weeks between December and February, the political barbed wire that separate parties came down and MPs showed they could unite behind a common purpose.What united them was the investigation into the ailing SABC, which was done in open meetings by a multi-party ad hoc committee appointed by the National Assembly.Superbly led by veteran MP Vincent Smith, the committee went about its task with a relentless, single-mindedness and doggedness that won it many plaudits and showed that MPs, particularly those from the ANC side, can lead fearlessly, engage a Cabinet minister in Faith Muthambi and stand up to the intimidating tactics of the SABC board.Even when the board lawyered up, walked out of a meeting and went to the Cape High Court to seek an order stopping the committee s work and lost, Smith and his committee stood firm. They would do the work as mandated by Parliament. And they did.When they delivered their report, on time, with only the United Democratic Movement dissenting, Parliament unanimously accepted it. Among the recommendations in their report was an appeal to President Jacob Zuma to reconsider Muthambi s position.Her removal from the Communications Ministry, albeit to another position, could be linked to the ad hoc committee s unflattering remarks about her.The unity that existed between parties disappeared on February 10 when Zuma opened Parliament in February. In the opening week there were accusations from civil society and opposition parties that Parliament was being militarised for the president s big night.The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) put their stamp on the evening with another thuggish behaviour.Speaker Baleka Mbete called in parliamentary security staff to remove them. The EFF advised veteran MP IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi to move to a safer seat, which he did.Predictably, the EFF group resisted and scuffles followed. It lost the public relations battle as many condemned them.On that night they showed that while they were smooth talkers when it comes to their constitutional rights, the EFF really did not care that much about the rights of others or even the conventions of Parliament.Zuma finally got to speak and gave an explanation of what he meant by radical economic transformation. However, he spoke to a friendly audience because most of the opposition parties, including the DA and EFF, had left the Chamber.The applause that he received came from the ANC.But days later the then finance minister Pravin Gordhan got a thunderous applause reserved for a beloved statesman, and denied to Zuma when he delivered what was to be his last budget speech. Opposition parties applauded him as if he was theirs. ANC MPs also joined in but not all of them did.Given that he would be sacked last Thursday, it was fitting that Gordhan was given this acknowledgment. Next term if he returns to Parliament it will be as an ordinary member shoring up the ANC benches.These were some of the most remarkable moments of the first term of Parliament in 2017.