This post is in response to a clarion call by Eusebius Mckaiser, in an article titled ConCourt should find for the UDM in the Mail &amp; Guardian in which he implores that, active citizens must read cases, think about them and be prepared to hold the court for poor legal adjudication .Barry Friedman, reflecting on McKaiser s perspective, postulates, public monitoring of the judiciary and judicial responsiveness to public opinion over time, are essential to mediated popular constitutionalism .Our judiciary early on has frowned on judicial populism. Arthur Chaskalson, then the chief justice of the Constitutional Court, in the Makwanyane case, thundered; Public opinion may have some relevance to the enquiry, but in itself, it is no substitute for the duty vested in the courts to interpret the Constitution and to uphold its provisions without fear or favour. If public opinion were to be decisive there would be no need for constitutional adjudication. The protection of rights could then be left to Parliament, which has a mandate from the public, and is answerable to the public for the way its mandate is exercised. First, the commentator is correct that judges are mortal, thus influenced and shaped by societal considerations in their judgments, but what distinguishes judges from laypersons is their discernment of legal jurisprudence in making their decisions.While law is not rocket science, it operates by a dynamic, predictable jurisprudential logic anchored in the doctrine of precedence. McKaiser argues that the Constitutional Court must hear the UDM case on the grounds that it raises new facts to the Tlouamma case.The court is urged to consider the matter in the light of distinguishable facts of alleged intimidation and threats of ANC parliamentarians, undermining their oath to hold the government accountable.In the Tlouamma case, the opposition parties contended that the National Assembly elects the president by secret ballot and thus has to be removed the same way. The ANC parliamentarians are apprehensive to act in accordance with their oath of office and consciences for fear of expulsion from the party if they publicly supported the motion of no confidence.Now Holomisa is armed with new strong allegations of threats and intimidation directed at ANC public representatives. The full bench decided that the Constitution is not prescriptive as to the manner in which the vote must be cast and emphasised that Parliament is entitled to regulate its internal proceedings and procedures.The National Assembly Rule 77 to 93 regulates voting processes and do not provide for secret ballot. NA rule 2(1) gives the speaker the discretion to fashion rules for anything not contemplated in the rules.The UDM argues that the speaker has the discretion on the question for whether to use a secret ballot in the light of the intimidation and threats to ANC parliamentarians. Christo Botha aptly asserts that the Constitution cannot become a handy little book of instant quotes selectively applied to support sectional interests .The Constitution only requires a vote supported by a majority of parliamentarians. The apex court reflected on the NA Rule 2(1) in the Mazibuko v Sisulu case, stating that the NA Rule 2(1) is permissive not peremptory .It does not confer power on the speaker to make rulings or rules on matters that are provided for in the rules.NA Rule 77 to 93 regulate voting processes excluding a secret ballot. The speaker cannot alter or override the rules (see paragraphs 28-20 thereof). The political farm has been cut into territories, the judicial, executive and legislative, and none will hunt in the territory of the others.The Constitutional Court is the ultimate guardian of the Constitution, its interpretations of the Constitution are final and binding on the rest of society. The UDM is effectively an appeal of the Tlouamma case through the back door. UDM had an opportunity to appeal this judgment but elected not to.They waited for another vote of no confidence to launch the appeal in the guise of a new matter. The ConCourt is reluctant to be a court of first and final instance without benefitting from the views of lower courts.The Supreme Court of Appeal has not been heard on this matter. Yet the UDM case raises a constitutional matter in which society has an interest and we have the benefit of a full bench of the Western Cape High Court.There are no prospects of success on the merits however, in my humble view. Holomisa has actually approached the wrong forum. He has two political options, to convince the ANC to support the amendment of the NA rules to introduce a secret ballot for a vote of no confidence and ANC parliamentarians to support their endeavour or tirelessly campaign for the masses to vote the ANC out of power in 2019.They should do so despite threats and intimidation.ISHMAEL MOTSWANE MALALEIshmael Motswane Malale is a former National Assembly rules committee member