Social grant recipients yesterday said they always knew the government would not let them down.Speaking after receiving their grants beneficiaries said although the storm over the possibility of them not being paid had worried them, they believed the government would not leave them in the lurch.Millions of recipients started receiving their monthly Sassa grants at the weekend and many more got paid yesterday. Betty Tshabangu, who received her money at Tembisa Plaza yesterday, said she was even grateful for the little extra that she received this month. I am happy that the government has continued to give us this money. I am obviously happy because I have the money in my hand right now, she said.Tshabangu received R1 620 yesterday after the pension grant was increased by R90 for the 2017-18 financial year. Funeka Walaza who was collecting her child support grant said she had been anxious in the past few weeks as she followed the news about whether or not she would get the money. We depend on this money. If we had not been paid this month I would have been distraught. I am glad the money is here, she said.Visiting one of the pay points yesterday, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini said she was satisfied with how smoothly the payment process had been going. Social grants will be paid out until April 21 to ensure that all recipients receive their payouts.The standing committee on public accounts has commended the South African Social Security Agency management for ensuring that the payment of grants went smoothly from April 1. Scopa is happy that Parliament played an active and critical role in ensuring that, despite the many challenges, the catastrophe of non-payment has been avoided. Scopa would like to apologise to grant recipients who have been needlessly subjected to anxiety and uncertainty, Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said.On April 1, Sassa paid more than R3.3bn worth of social grants, with more than 6 million transactions recorded. Despite this, Scopa said Dlamini should be held personally liable for the social grant payment crisis. Scopa still maintains, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court, that this was a self-made crisis for which the Minister of Social Development, Bathabile Dlamini, should be solely and personally held accountable, he said.Last month the Constitutional Court extended the contract between Sassa and the company outsourced to disburse social grants Cash Paymaster Services by a year. This after it expired on March 31.The contract was declared invalid in 2014 by the court but was allowed to continue so as to not disrupt the payment of grants. Sassa was meant to find another service provider before end of the contract.Handing down the ruling, the court said Dlamini should explain why she should not be held personally liable for the crisis. In her affidavit, Dlamini said she should have been tougher on Sassa officials about plans to get a new service provider for social grants.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za