FINANCE Minister Malusi Gigaba departs for a road show to the US this week determined to convince investors and rating agencies that the country is on the correct economic trajectory.He will meet stakeholders without the support of business and organised labour.Gigaba will be visiting New York and Washington tomorrow and will only be accompanied by a national Treasury team.Jabu Mabuza, president of Business Unity South Africa (Busa), sought to paint a positive picture regarding the relationship with Gigaba.He told The New Age that it was a responsible thing for business to promote investment in the country. He, however,could not comment on whether business was invited to join Gigaba. The minister just got into the new position. Maybe time is not on his side to meet with us, but we hope in future he will engage with us. Our CEO group initiative is looking forward to engage with the minister, Mabuza said.Organised labour also confirmed that it was not invited to accompany Gigaba on the road show.Dennis George, general secretary of Fedusa said they did not receive any official invitation to accompany the minister. Once we receive it then we can make a decision, George said.Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla also confirmed that the trade union federation had no detail of the invitation.Gigaba s spokesperson Mayihlome Tshwete confirmed that the minister would be travelling with Treasury officials only and is scheduled to meet with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund officials.Gigaba is also scheduled to meet with Moody s ratings agency and other investors during his week-long international trip.Prior to the recent downgrading to junk status, the government, business and labour put up a united front in their engagements with ratings agencies and investors.Meanwhile, in what is viewed in some quarters as a hardening of attitudes, Gigaba s newly appointed adviser Chris Malekane told television network ANN7 last night that while the South African economy required a structural overhaul, calls for an economic Codesa (Convention for a Democratic South Africa) were unnecessary.He also reiterated that the national Treasury was a key institution in the transformation of the country s economy.In the wake of the recent Cabinet reshuffle and ongoing protests calling for the removal of President Jacob Zuma, opinion is divided on the role played by business and organised labour in the ongoing turmoil.Full-page adverts in some Sunday publicationsby Business Leadership South Africa (BLSA) are also being viewed as an attempt to undermine Gigaba s leadership of the nationalTreasury.Last week, Gigaba met with South African asset managers in Cape Town to provide some clarity on his priorities as the new head of the national Treasury, and reiterated that no changes would be introduced at Treasury and fiscal consolidation would remain. We want management continuity at the national Treasury. It is a strong, professional and stable institution and we want to keep it that way. We are not here to change what has been built over the years, Gigaba said. He told local investors that being downgraded by the international ratings agencies was a serious concern and that the government needed to tackle this matter urgently in order for Moody s to not pull the trigger. We will be engaging with Moody s to state our intention going forward. The government has to take urgent steps to avoid further downgrades. We will be providing policy certainty and fight to reduce the country s debt. We are fully aware of the negative impact ratings downgrades can have on the government s ability to borrow affordably and on the private sector s ability to attract foreign investment. The finance minister also said government spending must be sustainable and that fiscal prudence would not be compromised.BERNARD SATHEKGE AND SELLO RABOTHATA