The Jesus Dominion International Church leadership and worshippers have come out in support of their embattled pastor, Tim Omotoso, who faces human trafficking charges.Omotoso appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court on Friday and was remanded in custody until May 3. He was arrested after allegations of human trafficking and sexual abuse levelled against him by young women, who used to worship at his church, emerged.A female pastor, only identified as KTT Kleinbooi, addressed the matter when she said she did not condone pastors who have sexual relations with young girls. Hear me well brethren, I am not condoning pastors who sleep with girls. All that I am saying is that as God s army, we must know our place. We are being talkative instead of praying, she said.Kleinbooi said God would fight on their behalf. We are confident that we are serving God. We cannot fight our own battles, God will fight our battles, she said.Referring to Facebook posts shared by Omotoso s victims, Kleinbooi said: Serving God is loving people who are shaming the gospel and loving our enemies. These people are shaming the gospel on Facebook. Nearly 30 young women from three provinces have come forward, claiming that Omotoso took them to his Umhlanga, Durban, house where they were sexually violated.The Hawks arrested Omotoso as he arrived at the Port Elizabeth airport on Thursday.He was found hiding in the women s toilets. Hawks spokesperson Lt-Col Robert Netshiunda, said more people had approached them about the matter.He said that more charges against Omotoso might be added as the investigation was still ongoing.Netshiunda said the agreement with Omotoso s legal team was that he would hand himself over after arriving. Instead, they were informed his flight had been delayed, even though it was on time. He said the fact that Omotoso had booked return tickets to Durban showed he was not willing to stick to the agreement.Gospel musical group, Simply Chrysolite, which was founded by Omotoso, said the pastor would be vindicated. Group member Thab zo Mkhwanazi said: We were young too when we came to his ministry. Our youngest was 16 years old but we have never experienced such from him. It is not true that he made us drop out of university. We dropped out before we joined the ministry. When we joined, he is the one who encouraged and sponsored us to go back to university. SIHLE MAVUSO AND ZODIDI MHLANAnews@thenewage.co.za