A change in Pitso Mosimane s tone regarding Mamelodi Sundowns struggles in the Absa Premiership after their 2-1 defeat to Kaizer Chiefs was clear and evident.This is a 180 degree turn from the Sundowns coach who dismissed the team s first draw to Chippa United and a loss to Cape Town City, saying his side could still make up for lost ground.What followed was another draw to Polokwane City and a Saturday defeat to Chiefs, which was aided by a moment of madness by defender Soumahoro Bangaly, who scored an own goal.In those matches that maximum points evaded them, Sundowns managed to take home just two points out of a possible 12, missing out on countless opportunities to go top of the log.Sundowns remain fifth on the log with 34 points, trailing second-placed Chiefs by five points, while they still have four games in hand.The Brazilians also trail log leaders Bidvest Wits by seven points, though Gavin Hunt s men played two games more than Mosimane s.Mosimane has since acknowledged that his team is struggling, but refused to concede the title. We are a little struggling. We are not in a good position. It tests your character. At least we are progressing with the Nedbank and the Champions League. I think the league will go down to the wire. We have to go on. I don t have to have doubtwhen they play like this. I think we should have won. But we have to congratulate the winning team because if we don t, it will sound like sour grapes. This match does not decide the title. It is not the last line. We will fight back. We believe we can win all the games. We have to grind. The league is not done.It is a long way from that. It is how you finish, not how you start, the coach said.Sundowns push to keep up the pace with the top sides will continue on Wednesday evening when they entertain Bloemfontein Celtic at the Lucas Moripe Stadium.The Brazilians will still be without the injured Wayne Arendse, Asavela Mbekile and Sibusiso Vilakazi, while Denis Onyango, Leonardo Castro and Anele Ngcongca are expected to feature.Mosimane also said Khama Billiat, who scored Sundowns game against Chiefs, will also play a big role against Celtic.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za