The multibillion-rand gambling industry in North West ranks among other sectors where transformation in terms of ownership has dismally failed since the dawn of democracy.The industry has largely remained a preserve for the whites. Africans have, at best, been incorporated for cosmetic purposes and at worst they are customers, bringing in the money and suffering the social costs. This is the situation in both legal and illegal gambling.The North West Gambling Board (NWGB), a state entity created to police this sector, has vowed to stamp its authority and ride on the wave of transformation sweeping across the country to dismantle the existing monopoly.NWGB CEO Fortune Sekgaphane said black people should be empowered in the sector so that they own and operate it.Clearly aware of the mafia style in which the industry is operated, Sekgaphane said there would be a necessary ruffling of feathers for those who have for long cashed in alone. Transformation is not happening. We still find companies doing business the way they used to back in the days before democracy. If you are black and you find yourself in this industry, you are just an employee. We have to change this, he said.Sekgaphane said black people are the majority of the population in North West and they should be empowered. This empowerment has to be done even if it means we ruffle feathers, so be it. A disturbing trend we have picked up in our operations as a board is that there are pockets of fronting where businesses masquerade as black operations, just for Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) compliance. This is should be exposed, he said.In such setups, Sekgaphane said management operations are often done clandestinely and this hides benefits due to black people whose names are used for licensing purposes. We have seen operations licenced five years ago that have not declared dividends and have not paid the loans. So the black people receive nothing in return and another disturbing factor is that there is a tendency to load black companies with loans so that they are forever fighting to stay afloat, he said.The NWGB CEO said most blackowned companies that try to break the ceiling find themselves bogged down in debt and would sometimes be forced to close shop. Big players want us to regret trying to empower black companies. This is so because some of the established players run management companies that drive the industry together with equipment supplies. However, transformation will happen by hook or by crook because we need the majority of people to have a say in how gambling is run in this province, he said. Regulation is one avenue the NWGB seeks to use to redress the imbalances in the gambling industry. We have to rigorously enforce the BBBEE requirements. Our licencing team will investigate whether the compliance certificates speak to reality on the ground to ferret out all pretenders. If we find that licences are not in compliance for regulatory or technical reasons, we will not renew the licences, Sekgaphane said.Each gambling licence is valued for a year. The financial dealings of gambling operators would be subjected to intense scrutiny in line with laws dealing with money laundering, tax evasion and terrorism funding, among other crimes. Books of registered operators will be subjected to inspection and should any suspicious transactions be picked up, concerned operators will be brought to book, the CEO said.The other key worrying factor is the ever-growing presence of illegal gambling and the fear is that some of such operations are well-funded. In many instances, the NWGB, working with police, close down illegal gambling sites and confiscate machines.Nonetheless, a few weeks down the line, the same sites will be open, with new stocks of machines, some of which are imported. At times, we confiscate machines and while we are transporting them, operators approach courts, apply for interdicts and we are forced not to destroy such machines. This shows the sheer arrogance that some of these illegal operators go about with their deeds, Sekgaphane said.There have been occasions where storehouses of machines removed from illegal sites, are burgled and machines go missing. Owners of missing machines would then sue the board, demanding that their machines be returned to them.Arguments have also been advanced that perhaps there are well-oiled syndicates that run operations where they strip machines and bring them in as components for assembly once they arrive in the country. This would explain why illegal operations never die despite spirited efforts by police and the board to cripple them.This is creating a huge social problem as underage people, delinquents and vulnerable people are exploited at illegal gambling sites. Schoolchildren are developing an appetite for gambling at an early age and coupled with easily available alcohol, cigarettes and drugs, society sits on a time bomb. We need to heal society from the alcohol syndrome, smoking and illegal gambling because if we don t do that, it leaves our communities worse off, with no hope for the future. That s why we encourage our licensed gambling operators to participate in socio-economic activities in communities. We want a percentage of net profit to go to a bursary scheme that helps develop skills for our young people, Sekgaphane said.The key factor to all this lies in the gambling sector getting transformed and owned by people who feel for the communities and see the downside of the industry so that it has a human face.As it is, the sector operates on a profit mode and the government is left to deal with the resultant social capital.-Elfas Torerai