With Mamelodi Sundowns not winning in six straight matches in the Absa Premiership because of centre-back problems, Motjeka Madisha was quietly waiting his chance.The young man who captained Sundowns title-winning Multi Choice Diski Challenge and subsequently played in Holland where he impressed talent scouts, was finally given a chance against Golden Arrows in the Nedbank Cup. In an impressive display, despite the defeat to Arrows, Madisha stood out as his team s best player. His performance prompted Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane to say he will stick with the young defender for the next matches, especially since Soumahoro Bangaly, Wayne Arendse and Ricardo Nascimento are injured.The former national U-20 captain produced another flawless display when Sundowns thrashed cross-town rivals SuperSport United 5-0, halting their win-less run in the league. Things got even better for the 22 year old when he launched on to a corner in Sundowns previous match against Free State Stars, scoring his first league goal, handing the Brazilians a 1-0 victory.For Madisha, the goal may have been an indication that more is to come, but to Sundowns, this could have been a goal that keeps them dreaming of winning the league. Reserved as he has been since his days with the U-20 team that won the Commonwealth Cup in Russia in 2015, Madisha said he must remain grounded if he is to achieve more success with the African champions. I had to be patient. I did not expect to play three matches in a row, but I was always ready provided a chance came my way. When the coach told me that I was going to play, I told myself that I have to grab this chance with both hands. It has been good progress. I am happy with the club keeping a clean sheet in the last two matches and of course, it is a proud moment to score in the league. I must help the team defend the league title. I m now looking forward to the match against SuperSport United because I think they will be tougher than they were when we beat them last week, the young defender said.The two wins have taken Sundowns to fourth on the log with 41 points from 21 matches. They trail third-placed Bidvest Wits, who tomorrow engage in a top table battle against Cape Town City, by three points. With City and Chiefs holding on to first and second spots, Sundowns are aware that they cannot afford any further slip-ups and Madisha is confident his team will be up to the task. For us, the most important thing is to focus on the next opponent and play well enough to take the points. I will be happy to play my part because what I have learnt at Sundowns is that we are a team fighting for one goal. The coach is happy with what I did, but I know he is not fully satisfied. I am also not satisfied. I want to do more. Madisha now looks to be forming a solid centre-back pairing with the Brazilian Nascimento.-Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za