THREE men including a policeman accused of involvement in the OR Tambo International Airport heist, were granted bail in the Kempton Park Magistrate s Court yesterday. Magistrate Amukelani Msimeki gave France Manaka a vault supervisor for Guard Force International the security company that was transporting the stolen millions, R50000 bail while Cosmos Ntanzi a metered taxi owner who allegedly knew of the heist before it happened also got R50000 bail.Simon Thokwane, 37, police constable stationed at the airport was granted bail of R100000. Msimeki said the three had proved exceptional circumstance existed to be granted bail while the only evidence the state had provided were the admission statements. I have considered the argument of the state and have come to the conclusion that exceptional circumstances have been provided to grant all six suspects bail with conditions. Their bail conditions require the accused to report to the nearest police station on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays between 6am and 6pm. They were also told not to leave the Gauteng province without permission and to surrender their passports and inform the investigating officer if they planned to relocate. Thokwane is alleged to have shown his co-accused access points and helped them observe the movements of security guards and police.Msimeki said Thokwane s bail conditions prevented him from leaving Gauteng without the investigating officer s written permission. He has to report to his nearest police station daily from Monday to Friday and twice on Saturday and Sunday. He was also told to surrender his SAPS identity card until he was reinstated as a police officer.On Monday, the court granted bail to the trio s co-accused Sibusiso Job Mnisi, 39, Prince Raphael Dube, 43, and Thando Sonqishe, 39. Msimeki said the state s case against the men was not strong as there was no proof that linked them to the incident. Mnisi got bail for R50 000, Dube R150 000 and Sonqishe R100000. Court officials confirmed Sonqishe had paid his R100000 bail on Monday while Dube was expected to pay his R150000 bail yesterday. Their bail conditions include reporting to their nearest police station daily and twice on weekends. You will have to surrender your travel documents after paying your bail to the investigating officer. You must also inform him if you change your residential address and you may not move before you inform him. You are forbidden from applying for a travel document until the case is finalised, Msimeki said. The seventh suspect, Mosiwa Mutame, 35, was released after he handed himself over to police. They will all be appearing again in the same court on May 26.nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za-Nondumiso Zwane