The mystery about the real owner of Moroka Swallows remains unsolved. And this is perhaps the main source of all the problems which have not only bedevilled the Birds for two decades, and have now left the club fighting for its existence.Internal squabbles over the control of the Soweto giants, founded by Ishmael Lesolang, Johnny Kubheka and Strike Makgatha in 1947, have led to the decline of the famous club , with the Birds relegated this week to the fourth tier of local football. But it s inconceivable that a team, which lost out in the Absa Premiership championship by a whisker only five seasons ago, could be playing on dusty SAB League pitches next season.Many reasons have been advanced for the humiliating state of Swallows, but the battle for the soul of the club between director Leon Prins and a group of minority shareholders led by Charles Makhubu cannot be ruled out. It began 12 years when Prins refused shareholders to get involved in the running of the club. His reasoning was he had the best interest of the real owner , Dieter Bock, at heart.But Prins was often accused of serving his own interests and this led to the over-arching question; exactly what was Bock s link to Swallows? A major role player, yet mostly in the shadows, Bock once graced these shores and was presented as the owner of Swallows during the club s sponsorship announcement in Johannesburg, back in 2005. But the reclusive German business mogul, who choked to death in hotel room seven years ago, showed no real interest in the club.Deepening the mystery is that the documents at the intellectual property registration office listed Leon Johannes Prins as the majority shareholder. However, in a statement released on March 24, 2010, it was Bock who put the club up for sale. And just weeks later, a month before he died, 90% of his shareholding in the club was sold to unknown business interests and his estate was said to have inherited the shares. But this has been in contrast with the registration documents, which do not list him as a major shareholder nor link him to the club.The shareholders have never met with Bock. It s a battle which started in 2001 when, according to reports, Bock bought out the late David Pine Chabeli s majority shares through FB Investment company, together with Prins. Prins would then be the new managing director, with co-director Gavin Bernstein. But it wasn t long before trouble started as the group of minority 10% shareholders threatened Prins and Bernstein, as seen when they forcefully locked up the club s office in Parktown.The football team, however, still managed to operate under hostile boardroom condition and tasted its first cup success in years when they won the Absa Cup in 2004. Yet the situation continued to bubble under. It was only last year that Panyaza Lesufi a government official and club spokesperson, announced that an unnamed local consortium had acquired 92% of the club s shares while 8% remained with other minority shareholders.This week Lesufi, however, said the club had accrued a debt of more than R100m and faced liquidation. Despite facing a grim future, Lesufi maintains hope that the Birds will one day soar again. The club owes almost R100m. The team is worth R250000 and investing in it won t make sense. Already there are three institutions who want to liquidate the team, Fifa, two companies based in South Africa and we also owe the South African Revenue Service and players for signing on fees, Lesufi said. We have commissioned a team of professionals to develop what we describe as the club s rescue plan. -Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za