Samsung s newly launched Galaxy S8 flagship smartphone has redeemed the number one cell phone manufacturer in the world giving us a huge departure from what we ve seen before from smartphones.The Galaxy S8 and S8+ are set to launch on May 5 in South Africa with a recommended retail price of R15 499, while the Galaxy S8+ is priced at R17 499. With its bigger Infinity display, Samsung has changed the way we think about a phone. Despite having a larger display than both the Pixel XL and the iPhone 7 Plus, the Galaxy S8 is notably shorter and more narrow, making it easier to hold.Samsung said the Galaxy S8 builds on Samsung s heritage of creating stunning designs and functional devices. Available in 5.8 inch Galaxy S8 and 6.2 inch Galaxy S8+, the Infinity display and bezel-less design form a smooth, continuous surface with no buttons or harsh angles. The device has an immersive viewing experience without distractions and makes multitasking more convenient.The Galaxy S8 s compact design enables comfortable one-handed operation. Samsung has proved to us one more time why it has been dominating the market with its newly-launched Galaxy S8 that has the most outstanding features. The Galaxy S8 and Galaxy S8+, offer impressive new features that we have never seen on a phone before.The smartphones come with more security options including a feature that lets users unlock their phone with their face. Once the user hits the home button, the phone can recognise their face and unlock the phone. The S8 also comes with an option for users to use their eyes with the new iris scan security option.The Galaxy Note 7 had this feature before it was recalled. The S8 s screen has a never-beforeseen aspect ratio. Whereas HD TVs offer viewers a 16:9 ratio, the S8 delivers a 18.5:9 aspect ratio, adopting the format dimensions of a cinema display. The Infinity display also makes the S8 the first ever smartphone to be HDR certified. Samsung has creatively made the S8 to adapt into a PC with a full desktop experience.The Samsung Dex can turn the smartphone into a PC that functions like a desktop. Samsung has introduced Bixby, a new intelligent interface on its devices. Bixby is a built-in voice assistant for the Galaxy S8. Samsung calls it a new way to interact with your phone . Bixby has its own button on the left side of the phone and has a new AI service built in. The voice assistant is used to make things that the users do on the phone easier and more convenient.Bixby is designed to do more phoneorientated actions rather than just searching the web. Samsung South Africa said its dealer partners have opened pre-registration campaigns and pre-orders for the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8+. The Galaxy S8 will be available starting on May 5 and will be offered in a rich colour palette including midnight black, orchid gray and maple gold with more colours to be launched later in the year, Samsung Electronics said.-INDIE BOYCE|indiphileb@thenewage.co.za