With the surge in bullying in KwaZulu Natal schools and communities, the stop bullying team has embarked on a drive to create awareness and educate pupils around Durban about the effects of and different types of bullying.The team engages in discussions with the pupils and advises them to immediately seek help if they are the victims or know the perpetrators. We are taking a stand against any form of bullying. Be it verbal, physical, social intimidation and cyber bullying, it will not be tolerated, Priya Naidoo of the campaign said.Gugulethu Mhlongo, a single parent from Ntuzuma, welcomed the initiative saying it would help children understand their rights and that bullying was wrong as it had terrible psychological effects. My neighbour nearly committed suicide after seeing a compromising video of her daughter that was circulated on WhatsApp by the daughter s boyfriend. After breaking up, the guy blackmailed the teenager threatening to leak the video if they didn t get backtogether. This is the type of bullying that s on the rise among teenagers, Mhlongo said.She said the campaign would help to empower children to speak up not only when they were bullied by their peers at school but also when they were abused by adults in the community.The campaign team said its goal was to create a society free from intimidation and bullying. To achieve this we will drive awareness and education campaigns while creating a support system for all those affected by this epidemic, Naidoo said.Some studies revealed that 90% of girls had seen bullying or experienced it. A total of 62% boys said they bullied others, 21% said they were bullied physically, 74% said they were verbally bullied daily and 98% admitted they would rather bully others than be the victim. The consequences of being bullied are that the teen victims end up using drugs and alcohol to cope and some resort to inflicting self-harm to deal with the pain. Those who can t stand the humiliation of being bullied have tried to commit suicide or contemplated taking their lives, local activist, Rob Chetty from Cornubia said. Bullies are often insecure people who crave attention but lack the skills needed to solve problems so they resort to violence. By being in power and control and demeaning others, bullies think they can assert their self-worth, Nosipho Kunene, a social worker who deals with teenage delinquents in Durban, said.Dumi Sigogoprovinces@thenewage.co.za