Our country, the Rainbow Nation as Emeritus Archbishop Tutu called it during the Truth and Reconciliation period, is an open society, which rose from the ashes of apartheid, discrimination and colonialism of a special type where the minority were suppressing the majority for close to three centuries.This is the country that defied opinion polls and international analysts who predicted a bloodbath in 1994 when the whole world was watching with bated breath at the low intensity civil war that was unfolding.Voices of reason from the former jailbirds and terrorists prevailed and the whole nation embraced the first ever democratic elections, which ushered in the new era where a new constitution was drafted and adopted, giving the nation, for the first time, access to all civil liberty rights that were denied to the majority for a very long time.The euphoria of democracy and how the nation has progressed made us drop our guard with the belief that a new identity for our rainbow nation is emerging where equal opportunities and all encompassing rights are guaranteed to all.And there was a general acceptance that racial discrimination and hatred was a mistake of history that must never be repeated. A vast amount of time was spent by president Nelson Mandela on a reconciliation project, with the view to enforce national acceptance and to conscientise the nation that we are one. For a brief period there were notable successes.The country s admission to world bodies and organisations ensured that we host major events including the Africa Cup of Nations, the Rugby World Cup and the Fifa Soccer World Cup. All these achievements were an indication of a progress we were making as a nation that seeks to use every social event to unite its people.More and more black people became participants in sports such as rugby, cricket and other sporting codes that were traditionally known as the preserve of white people. There were no more restrictions on people as to where they can and can t go.That is why it is now more fashionable for white people to dine in places such as Vilakazi Street in Soweto, or Max s Lifestyle Tavern and the Eyadini Lounge in Umlazi and more rugby is now played in townships.But the recent racist incidents are a reminder that we are a nation developing quickly in a number of aspects but we seem to avoid the open and difficult conversation about our ugly past.A history of oppression and political slogans have galvanised the idea to the majority of black South Africans that discrimination was an ideology that was waged only by the conservative Afrikaners to the majority of black people.As a result of this, a gap of distrust between black Africans and Afrikaners existed far longer than was expected.This opportunistically left the white English speakers under the radar since more focus was on the Afrikaners.Ironically, in the recent racial incidents that have been widely reported by the media, the majority of the perpetrators were not Afrikaners but English liberals .You can think of Penny Sparrow, Mike Waters, Dianne Kohler Barnard and now the Western Cape Premier Helen Zille. It is of great concern that some of these people who are waging these racist rants in the social media are well-respected individuals who are public representatives and loyalists of the fastest-growing political party, the DA.Many people will be forgiven for being quick to judge the DA for the misdemeanour of these individuals, but what must be of the essence is that this might be the tip of an iceberg. After being subjugated for almost three centuries, the majority of black Africans are fluent in either English or Afrikaans, which were languages of domination, yet fewer than 3% of white people take it as their moral obligation to learn at least one of the African languages.Paul Rogat Loeb in his book, A Citizen s Guide to Hope in a Time of Fear, says: Those who make us believe that anything s possible and fire our imaginations over the long haul, are often the ones who have survived the bleakest of circumstances.The men and women who have every reason to despair but don t, may have the most to teach us, not only about how to hold true to our beliefs, but about how such a life can bring about seemingly impossible social change. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, despite its shortcomings, dealt with a number of atrocities that were perpetrated by those who were waging political struggle on both sides. Painful as it was, it enabled the majority who were ignorant of what happened, and afforded closure to some.The nation has since moved from that ugly past and tried to forge a common identity in a number of aspects, be it in sports, arts and even in politics. The number of black Africans and white Africans in the DA, the ANC and other political parties have significantly increased compared to the period of 1994.More African people are staying in affluent suburbs. Even though the economic situation is not where we all want it to be, the quality of life today is far better than it was before the dawn of democracy.But the failure of successive governments to create platforms for people to engage about their past creates a situation where the ugly head of racism always manifests itself in the form of tweets or Facebook messages where people nail their colours to the mast for everyone to see.This becomes a very difficult situation to deal with because our courts will soon be unable to cope with racism complaints that are referred to them more often. It looks like we are fast becoming a nation that talks past each other. We are flooding courts with issues that we can solve on our own if we are willing to confront our past.Philosopher Immanuel Kant in his brief work titled Idea for a Universal History, said: Whatever concepts one may hold, from a metaphysical point of view, concerning the freedom of the will, certainly its appearances, which are human actions, like every other natural (action) are determined by universal laws. However obscure their causes, history, which is concerned with narrating these appearances, permits us to hope that if we attend to the play of the freedom of the human will in the large, we may be able to discern a regular movement in it, and that what seems complex and chaotic in the individual may be seen from the standpoint of the human race as a whole to be a steady and progressive though slow evolution of its original endowment. We can t run away from our past. A nation that forgets its past has no future. We must embrace each other as compatriots of one nation. We share this common space in this beautiful country. Ours is to foster coexistence by acknowledging the right of others to exist.Name calling and racial slurs ventilated through our access to social media and other country s publications will not solve any of our problems. Instead it will take the nation backward.No matter how difficult it is, platforms must be created for all of us to confront our past so that we can move forward. We need each other more than before. Writing from Birmingham jail in 1963 under the theme Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere, Martin Luther Jr said: In a real sense, all life is interrelated. All men are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly. I can never be what I ought to be until you are what you ought to be, and you can never be what you ought to be until I am what I ought to be. SIBUSISO MAGWAZASibusiso Magwaza, is a presenter and political analyst at Vibe FM (94.7)