Police are investigating a case of culpable homicide after two people were burnt to death and another person was injured in Vuwani on Tuesday night. The two people lost their lives after the car they were traveling in crashed into a pipe that was used by the protesters to barricade a road during a protest. “It is alleged that three people were traveling in a sedan and their vehicle crashed into one of the pipes that was used to barricade the road causing the vehicle to burst into flames. Two people burnt to death and one was taken to hospital with serious injuries. A case of Culpable Homicide was opened and the process of identifying the deceased is still on. The Police investigations are still continuing,” Limpopo police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said. Meanwhile police said they are also investigating seven other cases of malicious damage to property after seven cars were stoned and damaged by protesters in Vuwani. Pro-Makhado group spokesperson Nsovo Sambo urged community members to refrain from actions that will lead to damages to properties as that does not represent the views of the collective residents.Speaking to Munghana Lonene radio station Sambo reiterates that the community members agreed to participate in a peaceful demonstration. He also lashed out at attacks on journalists after a media house vehicle was stoned by protesters. Meanwhile Limpopo Department of Education spokesperson Dr Nadedzani Rasila said they are concerned about the strike that is affecting learners in the area.”We hoped, we wished that perhaps learning and teaching was not gonna be disturbed,” Rasila said. “We are just hoping that all the relevant government departments and the Community members will reach an amicable solution that will allow our learners to go back to school,” he said. Vuwani residents resumed a shut down of the area earlier this week and have also vowed to continue with their protest action until their grievances are addressed. They are demanding the Demarcation Board to reverse their decision to include them into a new Municipality that incorporates Malamulele. They are demanding to be placed back into Makhado Municipality. Vuwani residents refused to receive services by the new LIM 345 Municipality. They are also refusing intervention by the ANC in Limpopo claiming that the ANC has not showed interest in resolving the matter . -TNA Reporter 