The ANC and its leagues sent out the clearest signal yet that calls for the resignation of President Jacob Zuma would be resisted.While the party s national working committee was locked in an extended session last night, its youth league and uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) fired the first salvo in what is expected to be a national mobilisation in defence of their president.Hundreds of ANC Youth League and MKMVA members yesterday descended on Germiston Stadium in the East Rand in support of Zuma.ANCYL secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza, flanked by Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina and NEC member Nomvula Mokonyane, said the ANCYL was prepared to defend Zuma to the end. The president of the ANC and the country will serve the remainder of his term as president of the ANC and South Africa. Those who want to use wrong means of regime change will meet us on the streets, Nzuza said.Mokonyane said she was confident that Zuma would emerge unscathed from the ANC s national working committee (NWC) meeting. The NWC is still in session but the fact is Zuma will remain president of the ANC until 2017. There is no other process. What we ve seen now are hyenas in sheep s skin, she said.ANCYL Gauteng provincial chairperson Matome Chiloane fired his own salvo against the SACP and Cosatu for calling on Zuma to step down. We cannot trust these structures such as the SACP. We must find a way to isolate them. For them it s about Cabinet posts. They threatened to walk out of Cabinet but because they were spared, they decided to stay, he said.Chiloane also hit out at ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize and deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa for breaking ranks with Zuma on his decision to axe former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas. It was unprecedented. It has never been done in the history of the ANC where a disagreement in the structures of the ANC finds expression outside, especially from people who are supposed to be custodians of discipline. It was disappointing, Chiloane said.Meanwhile, various sources told The New Age yesterday that both Monday s officials meeting and the NWC were frank but brutal and that Zuma was going nowhere .With reference to the mounting attacks on Zuma s leadership by senior party and alliance leaders including Ramaphosa, Mantashe and Gordhan, the sources said Zuma warned them their actions could unleash a response that will be difficult to manage .Zuma s warning comes against the backdrop of growing anger among his supporters about his treatment. The president was elected by us in the branches. Any move to remove him must come from us. Those who are calling for the president s resignation will face the might of the movement, one of the sources said.These sources also confirmed a deal was being brokered to secure Zuma s future.-Bonolo Selebano