Five judges gunning for the Constitutional Court vacancy had to answer tough questions from the Judicial Service Commission yesterday.Among them was KwaZulu-Natal-born Supreme Court of Appeals (SCA) judge Leona Theron. She told the panel that when she arrived at the SCA as an acting judge, she experienced difficulties.Having been the youngest female to be appointed a judge at age 33, Theron said she was discriminated against. Tears filled her eyes as she described how she was discriminated against racially and gender-wise. The environment was unfriendly, coming in as an acting judge I didn t feel settled. I felt inadequate, Theron said.She suggested that there should be formal structures to support junior judges coming into the field. Even though the situation has changed, we have not done enough to make new judges thrive in the environment. Some of them fail and others do not want to come back, Theron said.She was praised for the good job she did in mentoring young lawyers.Theron spoke passionately about the need to empower women in the judiciary. The courts must not just say they know the problem exists about gender inequality. Something must be done. She said women must not be shoved into the higher courts only to be intimidated by male counterparts. They must be appointed in smaller divisions as well so that by the time they move to higher divisions, they know how things work, she said.Chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng said he also received a lot of criticism for wanting to create opportunities in the Constitutional Court. I received a lot of letters from people and organisations who were against it. Statistics gathered in March 2016 provides a visual summary of the race and gender transformation in the superior courts of South Africa.Of 255 judges, 145 are male and 82 are females. Out of these, 78 are white, 101 are African, 24 Indian and 24 coloured.Theron was not the only one who pointed out issues at the SCA.Judge Stevan Majiedt said there were difficulties at the SCA but changes are being made with the help of new leadership. Senior judges in the SCA often take all the cream for themselves when allocating cases. Other judges who were interviewed were Boissie Mbha, Jody Kollapen and Malcolm Wallis.NONDUMISO ZWANEnondumisoz@thenewage.co.za