Few people in boxing would ever have dared engage in a war of words with trash-talking champion trainer Nick Durandt. Apart from producing 40 world champions, the 53 year old, who died following a bike accident in Clarens in Free State on Friday, was a powerful presence, something that boxer Hekkie Budler says was important for boxing in South Africa.Although Budler never worked with Durandt, the 28 year old, who held the IBO and WBA Minimum-weight championships, described Durandt as the best trainer in South Africa and said any boxer who never dreamt of working with Uncle Nick should have just left the boxing ring. We may have never worked together, but Uncle Nick always called me after my fights and helped me with my tactical awareness. He was a man with a strong presence. You cannot talk about him and leave out all the controversy surrounding him, but that is who he was. It was always about what is good for the sport. He was without a doubt the best trainer to ever come out of this country. You would want to work with him to be a world champion. Look at how many champions he gave us. Durandt, who spent most of his life in South Africa, though he was born in England, retired from training boxers last year. He is credited with producing champions who included Cassius Isaac Angel Hlatshwayo, The Hitman Baloyi, Malcolm The Stone Klassen, Moruti Baby Face Mthalane and Simphiwe Golden Master Nongqayi, as well as coaching Phillip Time Bomb Ndou in his fight against Floyd Money Mayweather, who went on to be an undefeated boxing great.Budler said South Africa should be grateful to have had Durandt ringside experience to draw on. Boxing needed someone who lived the sport. Who talked the sport and thought of the sport before anything else and Uncle Nick was just that. He always put his fighters first. You could never doubt that they were well looked after and that he wanted them to win. Boxing has lost a selfless human being in Uncle Nick. -Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za