The launch of the fourth rural enterprise development (RED) hub in the Eastern Cape is expected to create more jobs in rural villages across the province.President Jacob Zuma officially unveiled the R53.5m milling plant to 14 rural cooperatives in Dyifani village outside Bizana on Friday.Three others are located in Mqanduli, Ncora and Lady Frere, Zuma said and were said to generate millions of rands in income for the communities. The milling facility is a secondary co-operative and processes maize that is produced by primary cooperatives in surrounding village and packaged under the Brand Super White maize mill. This gives the rural communities involved their slice in the maize value chain. These RED hubs with the primary production covering a total of 3 754ha of land and producing maize and sorghum planted by rural cooperations made an income of about R 8.2m during the midterm, Zuma said. The RED hubs created a total of 397 permanent and 679 short-term jobs and there s the potential to create more jobs when the milling plants are fully operational. The aim of the RED hub initiative is to boost the income of rural people through the facilitation of primary production, processing of outputs, creating a communal and external market and linking the various types of primary production to efficient value chain system, Eastern Cape MEC for rural development Mlibo Qoboshiyane said. RED hubs link production, processing and marketing to boost competitiveness of rural economies and ultimately increase incomes for rural communities. They create platforms for economic activity in rural areas, resulting in increased incomes. This is achieved through the facilitation of primary production, processing of outputs, creating communal and external markets and linking the various types of primary production to efficient value chain system, Qoboshiyane said. They also promote rural savings and investment within the community while stimulating the local rural economy. Zuma said that the government had so far invested nearly R200m to establish RED hubs. The successful implementation of these RED hubs resulted in this government investing a total of R62m to build a new RED hub at Tshabo village near Berlin in the Buffalo City metropolitan municipality. The total amount invested by the government in these hubs over the past three years is R190m. Of the four existing RED hubs, this hub we are launching today leads the pack in terms of investment as we have invested R53.5m in this state-of-the-art structure. The Ncora RED hub in iNtsika Yethu municipality received R49m while R46.5m was invested in Lady Frere in Eastern Cape s Emalahleni local municipality and R41m was invested in Mqanduli in the King Sabata Dalindyebo region. In 2016-17 the government allocated an additional R25m to enhance operations in all RED hubs, which will include increasing hectarage by 2 000ha per RED hub. The Bizana RED hub covers 14 villages in the Mbizana local municipality in the Alfred Nzo district municipality.Zuma commended the beneficiaries for responding positively to the government s clarion call for rural communities to create co-operatives, adding that cooperatives have potential of bringing people together to actively participate in local economic development. A case in point is the 14 primary cooperatives that have been formed who in turn formed a secondary cooperative which is a structure that owns this RED hub. The Eastern Cape Rural Development Agency, which is an implementation agency of provincial department of rural development and agrarian reform partnered with Mbizana local municipality, the national department of land reform, Alfred Nzo district municipality, Alfred Nzo Development Agency and Department of economic development, environmental affairs and tourism in this programme.SIYA MITIprovinces@thenewage.co.za