The stage is set for a possible confrontation between pro- and anti Jacob Zuma supporters ahead of a number of protests calling for the president to step down.Civil society groups and opposition parties plan separate protests in support of their demands. The protests occur as Parliament gears up to debate a no-confidence motion.Members of the National Assembly will return to Parliament on April 18 to take part in a no-confidence debate that has been requested by opposition parties.The request was made last week and caused Speaker Baleka Mbete to cut short an official trip to Bangladesh to apply her mind to the issue. She announced yesterday that she had decided to accede to the request.This means that MPs will be recalled from what has been termed constituency work to debate and vote on the issue. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation (AKF) is spearheading a civil society protest outside the Union Buildings tomorrow.Also tomorrow, opposition parties including the DA and EFF will converge on Beyers Naude Square in Johannesburg to call for Zuma s resignation. Their original plans to stage the protest outside the ANC headquarters at Luthuli House was scuppered following threats of confrontation with ANC supporters.In the build-up to tomorrow s Union Buildings protest, the AKF is hosting a series of memorial services in Tshwane, Cape Town and Durban. While these memorials have been organised to commemorate the life of late struggle stalwart, Kathrada, they have been used as a platform to promote the former finance minister as the poster boy for the anti-Zuma campaign.The chairperson of the AKF is former tourism minister Derek Hanekom. He was axed together with Pravin Gordhan in last week s Cabinet reshuffle. Pro-Zuma supporters are not taking these protests lightly and have promised action in defence of their president and party.The KZN Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) is sending 600 combat ready cadres to defend Luthuli House tomorrow.The association s chairperson, Themba Mavundla, said the battalion is expected to be at Luthuli House from the morning. Asked whether the battalion will be armed or not, Mavundla asked journalists to research how combat works. These forces of darkness must stay away from Luthuli House. We will defend Luthuli House with our lives and limbs. And, as such, we are dispatching 600 combat ready forces from KZN to go and defend Luthuli house against anyone who has an agenda to ridicule or undermine the ANC. Our cadres will be there until this black Friday joke is turned into the real joke it is, Mavundla said.He warned those who intend to go to the march that it won t be nice . We will be ready for whatever the enemy is preparing to do at Luthuli House. We will just be combat ready, Mavundla said.Meanwhile, the ANC Youth League in KZN also said yesterday it would be sending members to the memorial service for Kathrada on Sunday. Gordhan will be the keynote speaker. Mandla Shange, the league s spokesperson, said they would not allow the memorial service to be used to mislead people and distort ANC history. We expect all youth league members from Durban and nearby areas to join us at the service for Kathrada, one of the products of the ANC. And if anyone uses the platform to distort history we will correct him from there, Shange said.JMPD spokesperson Wayne Minnaar confirmed that permission was granted for tomorrow s opposition protests. A huge group of officers will be deployed on Friday (tomorrow). The relevant party did apply for permission to march and have been granted permission, Minnaar said.Brig Vish Naidoo, SAPS national spokesperson, said they had measures in place to ensure peaceful protests. We do have plans in place to ensure that the protests are conducted in a safe and secure environment and conducted peacefully, Naidoo said.He could not say how many officers would be deployed to both marches in Pretoria and Johannesburg for security reasons.SIHLE MAVUSO AND DENNIS CRUYWAGEN