Things might be falling apart for SuperSport United in the Absa Premiership but the Tshwane giants are finding their feet in continental football. SuperSport walloped Liberia s Barrack Young Controllers 5-0 to book their place in the group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup.New Zealand-born striker Jeremy Brockie scored a hattrick for SuperSport while Thabo Mnyamane and Fagrie Lakay scored the other goals. While they are representing the country well in the continental competition, their ambition to win the league title has taken a knock. In their last four league matches they have failed to register a win, managing only three draws before suffering defeats to Baroka FC and Mamelodi Sundowns.With the desired results not coming their way, the club has dropped to fifth on the log with 37 points from 22 matches. They trail leaders Cape Town City by eight points, though the Cape side have played one more match compared to the Tshwane side. Stuart Baxter s men will be hoping to put their title charge back on track when they host Sundowns in the Tshwane derby.Matsatsantsa a Pitori are also in the Nedbank Cup, where they are due to play Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday to defend their title. SuperSport will present South Africa in the Confederations Cup together with Platinum Stars, who defeated AS Tanda of Ivory Coast. Bidvest Wits were the only disappointment as they were knocked out of the competition by Smouha of Egypt in a 1-0 defeat on aggregate.It will be for the first time Stars play in the group stages of the continental tournament and coach Cavin Johnson believes this will help their players to develop as they will gain invaluable experience. It s good for the players. I have always said that if you go to the group stages, it gives you more games, more experience, Johnson said. It gives the youngsters a chance to travel and see what Africa is like and to appreciate their own South Africa. Despite this being a big achievement for the club, they haven t got time to celebrate. The club not in a good position on the Premiership log, sitting on position 11 with 25 points from 22 matches, four points away from the relegation spot. They visit Polokwane City in a league fixture at Peter Mokaba stadium tomorrow. We know that we have to go to Polokwane and put in a very good shift. We are going to push harder and get maximum points. We are always pushing to go higher on the log, Johnson said.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za