Yesterday was the anniversary of the day that Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu was executed by the apartheid regime in 1979. This young man displayed all the selfless values that are the hallmark of the true hero of the people. He was prepared to lay down his life so that South Africa s people could be free.To commemorate this important day in our history we share with you his inspiring biography compiled and written by South African History Online.Early life and training in exile 1956-1976Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu was born in Pretoria on July 10, 1956. He was the second son of Martha Mahlangu. His father left the family in 1962 and from then on Mahlangu only saw him infrequently. His mother was a domestic worker and took sole responsibility for his upbringing.He attended Mamelodi High School and was in Grade 10 at the time of the 1976 Soweto uprisings against bantu education. The protests spread throughout the country and after being recruited by Thomas Masuku, Mahlangu joined the protests in Mamelodi, near Pretoria.Shortly after the uprising Mahlangu left the country to join theANC to be trained as an Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) cadre. He was part of a new generation of MK recruits dubbed the June 16 Detachment, as the group was made up mainly of students who were part of the student uprisings of 1976.He left without informing his family, who thought he was still selling goods on trains near Pietersburg. Mahlangu left a letter under his brother s pillow: Boet Lucas, Boet Lucas, Boet Lucas, don t look for me, I have left and you ll never find me. Later, the father of Temba Nkosi, the young man Mahlangu went into exile with, came to inform the family that their son had left to join the ANC in exile.Mahlangu, Masuku, Temba Nkosi and Richard Chauke all left South Africa via Mozambique and spent six months at the Xai Xai refugee camp.Later they were transported to an ANC training facility, called Engineering, in Angola. Mahlangu was reassigned to various cells within the training camp but he eventually joined a smaller unit of 10 men under Julius Mokoena, who reported to the commander in chief, Joe Modise.Among the 10 were George Lucky Mahlangu and Mondy Motloung. The unit was trained at Funda; they underwent crash courses in sabotage, military combat, scouting and political education.Mahlangu s MK unit left Angola in mid-1977 on a mission to join student protests commemorating the June 16 uprising and the police massacre that followed. They travelled through Mozambique to Namatswa on the Swaziland border, where Collin Ramusi met them. Ramusi drove them to a safe house in Mbabane, where they were briefed by Siphiwe Nyanda and given suitcases filled with false bottoms containing pamphlets, guns and grenades.The packages in which cadres received their sabotage material were known as dead letter boxes. It was common for each unit to be split into cells of three cadres when travelling into South Africa. Mahlangu was assigned to a cell with Lucky and Motloung.On June 11, 1977 their cell crossed the border into the South African town of Piet Retief, staying at the homes of various family members and contacts.At each stop they hid certain items, left for the use of other cadres who would later pass through the area and other items to be used by local communities for the June 16 protests.On June 13 the trio made their way to the Diagonal Street taxi rank in Johannesburg where they planned to catch a taxi to Soweto. As the first anniversary of the Soweto uprising was just three days away, the police presence was strong.A black policeman on patrol noticed the trio entering a taxi with large bags and approached them. The policeman said laat ek sien wat het julle daar! (let me see what you have there). The policeman grabbed a bag and a hand grenade and an AK-47 rifle fell out, with the policeman running for cover.The trio fled from the taxi tank, disappearing into the crowd. Lucky ran in the direction of Park Station and managed to elude capture.Mahlangu and Motloung ran towards Fordsburg along Jeppe Street, not realising that they were running towards John Vorster Square, the most notorious police station in the country.On the way Motloung got into a tug-of-war with an off-duty policeman.He managed to get away, but the policeman shot at the running pair, hitting Mahlangu in the ankle. The pair kept running, turning left into Goch Street.Running slightly ahead of Motloung, Mahlangu ran into John Orr s warehouse, where he took cover. Seeking Mahlangu, a panicked Motloung entered the warehouse and fired shots, killing two John Orr s employees.Within minutes police surrounded the entire area. Mahlangu and Motloung were beaten by onlookers and the police, and arrested and detained at the nearby John Vorster Square Prison. The media quickly caught wind of the shooting, printing headlines such as Terrorists in the country .Mahlangu and Motloung were tortured while in police custody.The police detained them under the 90-day etention law, giving the state time to prepare a case against the pair.Before the trial could commence Motloung was so badly beaten by the security police that he sustained severe brain damage. Clinical psychologist Annah Venter declared Motloung unfit to stand trial.Solomon s mother and brother, not knowing what was happening, were taken to see him. Solomon and his mother stood in silence looking at each other, and eventually Solomon asked his mother how the family was doing. She answered that they were coping, but after another period of silence she broke into a flood of tears.Solomon then asked his mother; Why are you crying in front of these dogs?I don t care what they do to me. And if they spill my blood, maybe it will give birth to other Solomons. Mahlangu s trial started on November 7, 1977, and ended on March 1, 1978. Martha Mahlangu and her children sought the legal expertise of Ismail Ayob and Partners to defend her son. The defence team included Ismail Mohammed, Clifford Mailer and Priscilla Jana.Mahlangu was charged with two counts of murder, two of attempted murder and several charges of sabotage under the Terrorism Act. He pleaded not guilty to all charges.Although Motloung was the one who fired the shots that killed the two civilians and wounded two others, the prosecution argued that under the law of common purpose, Mahlangu shared intent with Motloung and Mahlangu, making him guilty of murder whether or not he pulled the trigger.The common purpose law argues that all parties together committing a crime should face the same consequences regardless of whether they carried out the same acts.For the acts that Mahlangu had in fact committed, his legal team argued that he should only have received a maximum of five years imprisonment.The state demanded the death penalty and the prosecution got its way. He was sentenced to death by hanging on March 2, 1978.On June 15, 1978, the Rand Supreme Court refused Mahlangu leave to appeal his sentence and on July 24, 1978, the Bloemfontein Appeal Court again turned him down. Mahlangu awaited his execution in Pretoria Central Prison.Execution and ReactionAlthough various governments, the UN, international organisations and prominent individuals attempted to intercede on his behalf, Mahlangu was hanged at Pretoria Central Prison on April 6, 1979.The day of execution, observers believe, was deliberately chosen to coincide with the 327th anniversary of Jan van Riebeck s arrival at the Cape in 1652.In apparent defiance of then prime minister PW Botha, Mahlangu s last message was inspirational.Before he was executed, Mahlangu uttered these words: My blood will nourish the tree that will bear the fruits of freedom. Tell my people that I love them. They must continue the fight. The police buried Mahlangu in Atteridgeville, afraid that there would be violent protests during the funeral.On April 6, 1993, Solomon Mahlangu s body was reinterred at the Mamelodi Cemetery, where a plaque states his last words. My blood will nourish the tree that will bear the fruits of freedom. Tell my people that I love them. They must continue the fight. www.sahistory.org.za