The creation of decent jobs is a top priority in the Maluti-a-Phofung special economic zone (MAP-SEZ) that will be officially launched by President Jacob Zuma in Tshiame, Harrismith, in the Eastern Free State next Tuesday.Trade and Industry Minister Dr Rob Davies said the launch of the 1038ha MAP-SEZ was another significant milestone in the implementation of the department s Special Economic Zone Programme aimed at accelerating economic growth and development in designated regions of the country. The Industrial Policy Action Plan identifies SEZ s as key contributors to economic development. They are growth engines towards government s strategic objectives of industrialisation, regional development and employment creation. The SEZ programme has entered a full implementation phase. This is one of the critical instruments that the department is using to accelerate industrialisation in the country, Davies said.He said more importantly, the SEZ programme was a critical tool for the attraction of foreign direct investments (FDIs), creation of decent jobs, establishment of new industrial centres, as well as development and improvement of the existing infrastructure. The MAP-SEZ will create opportunities for manufacturing as well as a regional and international trade environment with added value chain within the Maluti-APhofung municipality. The social and economic benefits, as well as regional development, will be key and will be enhanced by creating a prosperous trade city and functional trade ecosystem (SIP2), which will enable the beneficiation of mineral and natural resources and attract foreign direct investment. The priority sectors for the MAPSEZ are automotive, agro-processing, logistics, ICT, pharmaceuticals and general processing, Free State Premier Ace Magashule said.A special economic zone (SEZ) is defined as a geographically designated area of a country set aside for specifically targeted economic activities, which are then supported through special arrangements and support systems to promote industrial development. A number of incentives and benefits are available to ensure SEZ s growth, revenue generation, creation of jobs, attraction of FDIs and international competitiveness. These include a preferential 15% corporate tax, building allowance, 12I tax allowance and customs controlled area.Zuma will be joined by Davies and his deputy Gratitude Magwanishe, Magashule, MEC for economic, small business development, tourism and environmental affairs in the Free State, Dr Benny Malakoane and the MEC for police, roads and transport in the free state and head of provincial economic cluster, Sam Mashinini. The executive mayor of Thabo Mofutsanyana district municipality, Malefu Vilakazi and the executive mayor of Maluti-a-Phofung local municipality, Vusimusi Tshabalala, will also be in attendance.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za