Chairperson of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) sub-committee on communications Jackson Mthembu yesterday accused the media of having a gluttonous appetite for bad news.Briefing journalists on the ANC s policy discussion document on communications and the battle of ideas, Mthembu said that the media were habituated to unbalanced reporting. What you have written is wrong factually and otherwise. When they then realise through the ombudsman that indeed they were wrong, the apology will be a very small thing not as big and pronounced as the offending article. And it will go on page 6 and not page 1. Others make the apology but still maintain the claim and there s nothing the ombudsman can do about it. Mthembu s lamentations on media bias did not end there as he had more words to spare. He rubbished the system of self-regulation, saying it failed to guard against inaccurate reporting. They would even say to us why must you praise a fish for swimming. That s what they say to us. But when that fish for whatever reason is unable to swim, they ll go to town as if that fish has never swam. That s the problem. Your own codes say that you must be a little objective. You (the media) don t reflect any positive things that we do. It is for this that Mthembu called for external regulation of the media. Self-regulation has failed and reaffirms the need for an independent regulator of the media. Parliament must urgently undertake an inquiry into how to regulate the media. We (ANC) would like to go to Parliament to show how self-regulation has failed. The print media hardly recognises achievements we do make in terms of economic and social progress in any arena of our endeavours. Mthembu said the executive s communications strategy had at times been found wanting. He said the ANC would work towards strengthening its communications capacity. The second objective is the strengthening of the communication capacity of the executive arm of the state. We think we re found very wanting in terms of how we communicate as the executive arm of the state. Mthembu, making reference to the newly appointed SABC interim board, closed ranks behind the board members, saying they would do well to restore the image of the public broadcaster. We welcome the new interim board members that all of us trust and believe that they will lay the basis to turn around the SABC. We have full confidence in that the board, with the support of Parliament and everybody, has the capacity to turn that national asset around. Mthembu also said the government was lagging behind on the implementation of its digital migration policy.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za