Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize were forced to abandon their speeches at a memorial service for late struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada yesterday.Despite a court order preventing them from disrupting the event at Sastri College in Durban, angry ANC Youth League (ANCYL) supporters toyi-toyied in support of President Jacob Zuma and sent a clear message to Gordhan and Mkhize that their recent criticism of Zuma s decision to axe the former finance minister was not welcome.Gordhan was booed intermittently and at one point he stopped speaking as chants of Zuma! Zuma! rang out from the large group of ANCYL supporters.ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala had to intervene, telling the disrupters: You must go out or you must be disciplined. Earlier, Zikalala pleaded for supporters to desist from using memorials and funerals to further political agendas.He said the letter that was written by Kathrada before his death to Zuma, urging him to step down, was between him and the president and criticised Zuma s detractors for using it to discredit the president.ANCYL secretary-general Thanduxolo Sabelo did not mince his words about Gordhan s conduct. Uncle Kathy would have never allowed the use of his name to tear the ANC apart. Throughout his life, he did not demand a Cabinet position, Sabelo said in a swipe aimed at Gordhan.The former minister was seen protesting throughout Sabelo s speech.After the speech Sabelo shook hands with everybody but a teary Gordhan refused to shake his hand.A security officer said he had overheard Gordhan protesting that Sabelo had attacked him for failing poor people while he was finance minister. Gordhan told Sabelo that they should blame Zuma as he was the one in charge of all departments, including the finance department, the officer said.The security officer said Mkhize intervened, telling them to stop arguing in front of the media.In his shortened address, Gordhan steered clear of attacking Zuma.However, his comments on corruption angered the ANCYL supporters who then proceeded to prevent him from continuing with his speech. But that unity was not without principle. It was a principled unity. We know that there is no other organisation in South Africa that can deliver the promise of a non-racial nonsexist, democratic South Africa Gordhan said. Because you see comrades two of us or any group of us can make a deal today. Somebody will pass on a nice bag of money we all share the money and we say we now have unity because we won t fight because we all have a bit of money.That s not unity. Unity can t be based on money unity cannot be based on these brown bags that are moving out all over. That is not Kathrada s ANC. Shortly thereafter he was interrupted by the crowd.Mkhize, who tried to restore calm, was also shouted down by the boisterous crowd with one member shouting: You divided KZN. -SIHLE MAVUSO