As the country celebrated Freedom Day yesterday, the ANC called on South Africans to guard against those who sought to reverse the gains of 1994. We must at all times remain vigilant of certain sections of our population who were the beneficiaries of the old order and are bent on either reversing this achievement or stalling progress, the ANC said. Ours is to confront those elements intent on undermining the popular electoral mandate in order to reverse the gains of our hard-won democracy. According to the ANC, while South Africa in 2017 is a better place to live in than it was in 1994, the governing party has acknowledged that there are still many challenges to overcome. South Africa continues to represent the most acute manifestation of most of the social fault lines that define humanity s challenges, race, class, gender and geographic location. Income inequality and inequitable distribution of assets are at their most intense. Poverty and unbridled opulence live side by side, the ruling party said yesterday.At a Freedom Day celebration in Tshwane, Gauteng Premier David Makhura reminded South Africans that real freedom meant people must be free from poverty and unemployment, and have access to land and a share in the economy of South Africa.Makhura also laid a wreath at the Mendi memorial monument in commemoration of the centenary of the sinking of the SS Mendi. The tragedy claimed the lives of 616 South Africans, including 607 black troops serving in the South African Native Labour Contingent during World War I. We must always remember that there were many South Africans who sacrificed their lives and never got to see Freedom Day in 1994, Makhurasaid.Present at the ceremony was World War II veteran Johannes Chaba, 94, dressed in his uniform decorated with war medals.Makhura embraced him on the podium of the monument. Chaba and others went to parts of the world as an army that was not recognised, hence we decided to come to respect them here, we must always remember that freedom was not free, the premier said.He also had words for those who were agitating against the ANC government. We are free to express ourselves including us as the government, if it was during apartheid, they would have been jailed if they stand up against their own government, he said.Makhura said South Africa owed thanks to all who fought for freedom including Pan Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC) stalwart Phillip Kgosana. The struggle was fought for not just by one organisation but different political movements, kings and queens, traditional leaders, religiousleaders, youths and more. By freedom we don t only mean the right to vote but we mean that everyone must live in dignity and share the wealth of our country, we can t have others who have access to the means of life whereas some don t, he said.Northern Cape Premier Sylvia Lucas addressed a rally in Riemvasmaak in the ZF Mgcawu district municipality, where she said: This year, we must also reaffirm our commitment to our country s Constitution, which is the foundation of our democracy and the core of what freedom means. In the city of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille said: During the apartheid struggle, many lives were lost so that we could have the freedoms enshrined in our Constitution. Now, it is important for each of us to claim the freedoms that we are guaranteed. We can build a more inclusive city by claiming our freedom of movement, association and religion. ntombin@thenewage.co.za