The Nedbank Cup is well known for minnows upsetting the big teams and this season it has lived up to that expectation , with Jomo Cosmos, KwaDukuza United and Acornbush FC making effective statements.Cosmos defeated Bidvest Wits on penalties to book their place in the quarterfinal. KwaDukuza beat Ajax Cape Town in the first round. Acornbush, who upset Cape Town City in the last 32, are eyeing another scalp and they believe they can upset Kaizer Chiefs whom they host at Kabokweni stadium in the last 16 on Sunday. I think we can shock one of the biggest teams in the country, Macdonald Makhubedu, the Acornbush coach, said. We don t have to do any extra work to prepare. It s good for us as the technical team that the players are already motivated. Acornbush, who play in the ABC Motsepe league, qualified for the National First Division playoffs after winning their league.But it has been reported by some in the media that their journey from Bushbuckridge was aided by game officials who they claim awarded them a total of 29 penalties during their season. Makhubedu has denied this and says the clash on Sunday gives them an opportunity to prove that they deserve to be where they are. My players want to prove to the media who reported that we got 29 penalties. We only got nine penalties the whole season. The players want to show everyone on Sunday that even if we lose, we play with pride, not by robbing people. The team want to prove to everyone in the country that they are good footballers, that is their motivation. Having seen Chiefs being embarrassed in the past by minnows such as Baroka FC in this competition, coach Steve Komphela refuses to take Acornbush for granted. It is important and we understand their qualities. One thing you know is, this team can t just beat any PSL team unless they weren t serious. They would not have topped their log if they were not serious players. So we are going into the game with the understanding that we have a serious match on our hands. That we ve been doing well, means that the compliments should go to our players.-Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za