Former SAA chief commercial officer Sylvain Bosc this week joined Fastjet s growing team of aviation specialists, the African-focused low cost airline announced yesterday.He joins a team of heavyweights assembled by the carrier s CEO and former SAA boss Nico Bezuidenhout. Bosc left SAA after being suspended and placed on special leave in November 2015 in what the national airline spokesperson Tlali Tlali said was pursuant to a forensic investigation by ENSafrica into various allegations that were received through the Deloitte tip-off hotline .At the time it was deemed the tipoff allegations had enough substance to suggest he doctored the numbers for Abu Dhabi to favour the opening of this route and sold SAA out, according to reports. Bosc s credentials include a successful tenure as chief commercial officer at French carrier Corsair, prior to which he was group strategic planner for the Air France KLM group after holding other positions there.Bosc said yesterday that righting the business and positioning it for inevitable growth is an absolute priority . He said the concept of a truly panAfrican low cost airline, making air travel accessible to the second most populous continent after Asia, presents a significant socio-economic and commercial opportunity. There has been a marked stimulation of tourism and trade growth in markets where Fastjet operates. Typically, aviation fulfils a significant role in the development of these two sectors as well as empowering people who have not had the opportunity to fly before, Bosc says. I look forward to Fastjet partnering with relevant authorities, the governments and private industry to further fuel growth on the continent. Bezuidenhout says the team he is assembling represents the top talent in aviation with appointments reflecting the direction of the business. Fastjet already holds substantial market share on the routes that it operates on and plans are that it will become the market leader on the continent. Bosc s appointment will go a long way to re-establish a solid and formidable commercial foundation. His experience, particularly in Africa, insight and lateral thinking will stand Fastjet in good stead. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za