It Seems like Bidvest Wits coach Gavin Hunt is moving away from the usual notion of complaining about the number of matches being played in a short space of time.It has become the norm to hear coaches whining about how hard it is to compete in three competitions that run concurrently. Sometimes they are forced to play at least three games a week as has been the case with Wits recently. Wits are in the running for the Premier Soccer League title and tonight they will be looking to proceed to the quarterfinals of the Nedbank Cup.They face National First Division outfit Jomo Cosmos in the Last 16 of the competition at Tsakane stadium at 7.30pm. The Clever Boys will also entertain Egyptian outfit Smouha in the CAF Confederations Cup playoffs at the weekend at home. Hunt wants Wits to be one of the most successful teams in SA and if they are to achieve that, they need to conquer all competitors however crammed their schedule. Every team that are really successful around the world play a lot of games. We are in a situation where we haven t won anything but we are competing on all fronts, Hunt said. This week we are involved in three competitions, which is the league, Nedbank and Confederations Cup. We did the same in previous weeks. We are always going to focus on the next game because it becomes the most important thing, whatever competition it is. Just focus on the current game and after it think about the next one and we are going to go for everything, the coach said. Hunt said his side will need to be cautious when they approach Cosmos tonight. Cosmos have a great pedigree in cup competitions in SA football, they are out of the league where they are playing so they have nothing to lose, Hunt said. I think the pitch is going to be a leveller for us and them as well, it might be a bit smoother than what we are used to. With us playing every two to three days we need to be mentally strong to go and play there. The 19-year-old Reeve Frosler will be expected to get another run after impressing in the absence of Nazir Allie against Platinum Stars.-Sithembiso Dindi|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za