Bilateral talks between Cosatu and the South African Communist Party (SACP) collapsed this week over disagreement about ANC factional battles and an alleged plot to oust the labour federation s president, S dumo Dlamini.Tempers flared on Monday at an explosive bilateral meeting of the two organisations over concerns that the SACP wanted to influence its alliance partner to fight the ANC s factional battles.The New Age has learnt that Cosatu s national office bearers, with the exception of its second deputy president, Zingiswa Losi, held a meeting with the top six officials of the SACP, including general secretary Blade Nzimande and second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila.Sources with knowledge of deliberations at the meeting said that Mapaila had lost it after Cosatu president S dumo Dlamini cautioned the SACP on its insistence to goad Cosatu unions into wading into ANC factional wars at the expense of issues at shop-floor level for workers. The bilateral talks collapsed. The SACP is influencing Cosatu unions on political positions. We raised it with them and Solly lost his mind. He was not aware of how Cosatu feels. Comrades were goading us to launch an offensive against President Jacob Zuma, a source said. When we call for unity we are viewed as fearful because we are not joining the anti-Zuma chorus. They think that they can unleash us when they want to settle scores and Dlamini has refused to give them that space. The meeting took place against the backdrop of a plot to oust Dlamini as Cosatu leader due to his proximity to Zuma. The sources said the meeting also came at a time when there is growing concern of the SACP hijacking Cosatu.The sources lamented undue pressure from the SACP for Cosatu to involve itself in ANC battles. Affiliates don t have the appetite to fight ANC battles but they get bombarded by the SACP. We want to avoid ANC factions, we want to avoid getting hamstrung by ANC battles. The sources also said Dlamini got a raw deal by being criticised for attending Zuma s recent 75th birthday celebrationa. People like to give the impression that he s part of a faction when they themselves are doing factional work. He has emphasised that Cosatu should learn from past lessons not to be divided by politics. When approached for comment, Mapaila confirmed the meeting took place but would not comment on what transpired. We never publicised the meeting. We will not give comment on meetings that are leaked, Mapaila said.When asked to comment on the meeting, Dlamini said: I would rather not discuss it. The National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), which led the charge for Zuma to step down earlier this year, said that it held an alternative view of Cosatu s involvement in the ANC. We are not just a federation of shop-floor issues, we must master both in an atmosphere of leadership tensions, Nehawu president Mzwandile Makwayiba said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za