The ANC s subcommittee on economic transformation yesterday warned that the country s recent credit ratings downgrade was an ominous sign that the economy was teetering towards a recession.Addressing journalists yesterday on the ruling party s policy discussion document on radical economic transformation in Johannesburg, committee chairperson Enoch Godongwana said ratings agencies Fitch and S&amp;P Global Ratings downgrade of the country s sub-investment grade to junk status gave rise to the danger of the economy slipping further down the slope. Are we anticipating a recession? That s a possibility, he said.He said there were some within the ANC rank and file who did not fully comprehend the implications of credit ratings downgrades. If the stock exchange has come down by 10%, public sector workers in one company will lose R13bn. Part of the problem is that we ve not had an in-depth discussion. We need to have an understanding of who are the people in investment. These are the people who take insurance from us. People who take our pensions and put them in the stock exchange. So when you say we don t have money in the stock exchange, it s actually not correct because its our pensions that are losing value, Godongwana said.Godongwana s comments were in response to ANCYL president Collen Maine who on Friday said he was welcoming the junk status .ANC national executive committee member Nomvula Mokonyane also said last week at a support rally for President Jacob Zuma in Germiston that if the rand falls, we ll pick it up .Godongwana, referring to the government s proposed nuclear build programme, said in light of the prevailing economic conditions, if the government wanted to push ahead with the deal, it would have to do so at the expense of cutting back on government expenditure. As a general proposition, a government facing this thing where revenues are going to decline, there would be a requirement to cut expenditure. The question is: in the process of that prioritisation, what will you cut? If we do nuclear, we must do it at a scope and pace that is affordable. The test then becomes affordability. Will the country afford it, that s the question. Surely in light of the junk status, we ll have to sharpen our pencil and revise our expenditure pattern as the government, he said.Godongwana said South Africans would need to pull together to stave off further economic decline.Subcommittee member Gugile Nkwinti said the recent downgrade could adversely affect millions of poor South Africans struggling to make ends meet. It cannot be fair because it has serious negative implications on the South African population, particularly the poor. When an old lady who gets a social grant of R1600 goes to buy her grandchildren shoes for school and also wants to buy groceries and finds that this grant is no longer worth that R1600 because the price of a loaf of bread would have risen. The point is, how do we get ourselves as the government in South Africa out of the junk status, how do we prevent Moody s coming in and doing exactly the same thing, that s really what it is about, Nkwinti said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za