THE widow of slain SACP struggle icon Chris Hani, Limpho Hani yesterday tore into last week s country-wide anti-Zuma protests. Speaking at the commemoration of her husband s death in Boksburg, Hani lashed out at the double standards of political parties and civil society groups for disproportionately being vocal about certain social-ills at the expense of others. Several women have been raped by taxi drivers in Soweto and another woman was raped and killed with her boyfriend on the West Rand. There was no civil march to the taxi associations to demand justice for the raped women. When trade unions demand a living wage for workers in our country, they are met with disdain by employers. There is no civil society march to support poor workers. There was no civil society march after the Esidimeni tragedy. I feel there is a disconnect in our society of when we should stand together. Hani, making reference to corridor talks that she had a personal axe to grind against President Jacob Zuma, said on the contrary, that Zuma became a brother and a pillar of strength to her in her time of need. I m not trying to get votes but let me tell you something, he (Zuma) was the last ANC leader to see Chris before he died. Therefore it was easy for me to go to him and tell him my problems with my daughter s addiction. President Zuma, my wish for you is that God bless you a hundred-fold. At the moment, we are living in a time of paranoia and factionalism. I attended a prayer service last Wednesday in Houghton to pray for our country. I was later informed by some circles in our organisation, who were in attendance, that I belong to a faction that is against the president. I come from a praying family and whenever I have troubles I surrender to God. Hani, taking a swipe at the media for what she believed was the perpetuation of false narratives about the ANC, encouraged South African citizens to assess what they read in newspapers with a healthy dose of scepticism. We get information from the media about our economy, the ANC infighting, what and where marches will be held, and the reasons for the marches. About the ANC conference in December, who is standing for presidency, even when the ANC branches have not made their choices on the leadership. Malcolm X said if you form the habit of taking or believing what someone says about something without checking it out, you ll find that other people will have you hating your friends and loving your enemies . bonolos@thenewage.co.za-Bonolo Selebano