STUART Baxter could become the first coach to win the Nedbank Cup three times with two different teams should he guide SuperSport United to glory this season.United, the defending champions, reached the semifinal of the competition following their 5-3 victory on penalties over Kaizer Chiefs at FNB Stadium on Saturday. They join Orlando Pirates, Chippa United and Golden Arrows in today s semifinal draw in Johannesburg. Baxter first won the competition with Chiefs in 2013, beating SuperSport in the final, before lifting the trophy last year with Matsatsantsa a Pitori after edging Pirates 3-2.Now he has the opportunity to win it for the third time in four years. Baxter, however, said it s not about personal glory but the club winning something at the end of the day. I love winning. I love winning if I play tennis with my wife and I love winning when I play with my kids in the garden and I love winning football games, Baxter said. Winning a tournament is a better form of winning because you get something at the end of it. For me, if I win this tournament it will mean I am doing okay for the club.Baxter was also pleased with his side s performance after they ended their three-match run without a victory. He also praised promising youngster Teboho Mokoena who had a solid game against Chiefs in the middle of the park. Teboho Mokoena, I think he is a talent. I really hope that we don t do away with another talent in the country by over playing him and putting pressure on him and play one game and then he takes six months with his head in the back side, Baxter said. He is playing well this year, he made a couple of substitute appearances and he played in the CAF competition. I would like to send him to the World Cup with the U-20 team but our injury list will dictate if we can or can t. But undoubtedly he is a talented boy and South Africa will benefit a lot from him. Baxter will now switch focus back to the league as they face a daunting task against Bidvest Wits in a top of the table clash at Milpark Stadium tomorrow.&nbsp;