Janine van Wyk sat poignantly on the bench as Houston Dash crashed 5-1 to Seattle Reign in the US National Women s Soccer League clash at the weekend. Deep down, the Banyana Banyana international knew the honeymoon period was truly over as the reality of a challenge, in a different league, in a new environment finally hit.Van Wyk relocated to the US over two months ago, joining Houston for preseason training before she made her bow when they beat Chicago Red Stars 1-0. While she has often been the star of the show for JWV in the local Sasol League, Van Wyk finds herself starting almost at ground zero. But she is more than happy to begin from scratch, having realised her dream overseas move. Playing my first game for my new club was the realisation of a dream coming true, said Van Wyk. I am glad everything went well for me, I was quite nervous but ready at the same time just before kick off because I knew I had to put up a good performance to show my worth, but also to give myself a good start for the season ahead. I knew that I would start because the whole week at training I was being used as a starting player so I could prepare myself mentally for the game. I was very excited to know the coach also has trust in me. Now I am looking forward to all the upcoming games, I am just glad that the first one is out of the way. Van Wyk, the Banyana captain, could not play her second match for Houston after coach Randy Waldrum altered his starting line-up from the week ago, starting new acquisition Cami Levin in place of Van Wyk in defence. But there is little doubt she would have done much to prevent the heavy defeat, given the quality of Reign. Yet for Van Wyk, who has certainly moved up more than a notch from the local league, each lesson is vital. The 30 year old knows the journey is still long for her as she seeks to establish herself in the foreign league. Of course, I definitely feel that I am an inspiration and therefore it gives me another reason to keep working hard and stand out because although it hasn t been an easy journey for me, I still managed to reach my dream, she said. This can only mean that you should never give up on ur dreams. Some day it may come true. -Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage. co.za