AS PART of clearing the backlog of certificates at the country’s technical, vocational and education and training (TVET) institutions, a total of 233000 certificates have been released in recent months. Yesterday, the Higher Education and Training Dpartment said this was part of clearing the backlog which dates back as far as 2007. The huge backlog caused major headaches for students – many who have taken to the streets over the years. The students were unable to find jobs due to the outstanding certificates. The department said that some outstanding certificates must be verified. “In February 2017, the department announced that a baseline figure of 33297 NC (V) certificates were still awaiting processing,” the Higher Education and Training Department’s Madikwe Mabotha, said. “As of Friday, April 8, only 2650 of these certificates were still outstanding of which 1246 have already been submitted to quality assurer Umalusi for further verification and accreditation. “The remaining 1404 are being dealt with by the department in consultation with colleges.” Mabotha said that the department was working with TVET colleges principals in tackling data capturing problems which contributed to the backlog. “We continue to work closely with principals to ensure that inherent data capturing challenges, which contributed to many of the delays in the processing of results and certificates, are constantly identified and resolved so that they do not impact on future examination cycles,” Mabotha said. Mabotha said that the department was also dealing with recent certificates. The department said it was planning to release certificates for this year’s supplementary exams at the end of July. “In addition to the NC (V) backlog a total of 132912 NC (V) certificate records for the recent November 2016 examination cycle were processed, of which 82978 qualified for certification,” Mabotha said. “Of these 49539 were NC (V) subject certificates and 33439 were full certificates. This number excludes 5812 certificates that are still pending due to processing and data related challenges.” – 701233 Tna reporter