The death of someone you knew well provides a moment to reflect and think of events in the past. It forces people to sit back, marvel at a life well lived and roll back the years with powerful memories.Kaizer Chiefs legend Doctor Khumalo yesterday paid tribute to his former Chiefs coach, Jeff Butler, who died on Saturday morning. After his arrival from Europe, a massive shake up followed Butler to Amakhosi, where Khumalo said Butler turned the players into professionals while maintaining a strict approach both on and off the field. For a young carefree Khumalo, that would soon put him on a collision course with his new coach. I was a boy from Soweto. My biggest strength was my dribbling and ability to dance through opponents. But Butler believed we had to go forward as a team. That is how we started to fight, Khumalo said. We ended up not seeing eye to eye. It was that bad and true to his character, Jeff was never going to let me get away with it. He was really strict. The chairperson (Kaizer Motaung) had to stage an intervention. He talked to me and made me aware of certain things and that is when my relationship with Jeff improved. But even with that we would still had something to fight about. Butler coached Chiefs to success in the JPS Knockout Cup, the National Soccer League and the BP Top Eight Cup, between 1988 and 1996. It was one particular match in the BP Top Eight against Bloemfontein Celtic, that Chiefs eventually won 3-2, that Khumalo remembers as one that saw him collide with Butler again.With Chiefs trailing Celtic 1-0, Khumalo closed down the ball instead of crossing to Shane McGregor, who was in a better position to score. That led to a verbal hiding from an irate Butler at halftime. That is one halftime break I will never forget. I got the worst tongue lashing of my life from a coach. The F-word that was used was on another whole level. I was so scared that I took off my kit and went to shower. When the referee signalled that we must go back for the second half, I was not dressed. The other players pleaded with me to go back and play. I was angry. Funny enough, Jeff did not even make a change to take me off.I put on that same wet kit and went out to play. Within 10 minutes, we were leading 2-1. We won 3-2 and I was named man of the match. I think we were getting R3000. Jeff jokingly said he wanted some of that money. The main thing about Jeff is that he turned us into professionals. He changed how we looked at football and things got better for us. He also contributed trophies and got lots more people respecting Kaizer Chiefs. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za