IF ONLY it was a case of April Fool s Day, but it certainly isn t for Orlando Pirates, who could have a rare relegation dogfight on their hands. The thought of Pirates dropping down to the second tier league is simply inconceivable to those who swear by the famous skull and bones.But at this rate, there is a possibility, if not a genuine threat, that the Soweto giants, who have gone 13 league matches without a win, could be sucked into the relegation whirlpool. Supporters would have hoped the 3-2 loss to struggling Free State Stars on Saturday was an elaborate April Fool s Day prank.But the truth is the Buccaneers have further slid into trouble with their sixth loss of the season. The defeat to Stars clearly shocked coach Kjell Jonevret, who suffered his first loss since his appointment in February. But it certainly has not surprised those who have witnessed a string of timid performances since Pirates lost 6-1 to SuperSport United in early November. I hope our players were a little ashamed of this performance but we ll go home and be back here next Saturday and hopefully we can play a better game, Jonevret said. I think it s okay to lose games 1-0 or something, but to concede three goals, that s a little bit surprising. I couldn t believe that happened. To put this into better perspective, Pirates have won only four of 21 league matches so far, their last win coming against Chippa United in November. They are still stuck in 11th spot on the PSL log with 23 points, only five points above bottom-placed Baroka and just three more than 15th-placed Highlands Park.The Buccaneers have already suffered enough embarrassment this season, conceding six goals on two occasions, but fighting relegation would be the greatest embarrassment. Initially, the team s shocking resumption of their PSL campaign in January was put down to the changes in the technical team and that their mid-season preparations may have been insufficient under Augusto Palacios, who faced an uncertain future.And while that may have been a contributing factor, it appears Pirates have been mentally frail. Gone are the days when Pirates would scrape through to victory or find it within themselves to recover from early setbacks. When they fell 3-1 behind against Free State Stars on Saturday, it did not feel as if they would mount a successful comeback anytime soon. Jonevret will demand a big improvement when the Buccaneers return to face Free State Stars in the Nedbank Cup this weekend.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha