Dark clouds are hanging over the South African domestic economy, following ratings agency S&amp;P s move to plunge the country into junk status, but markets have stood up reasonably well, suggesting that players had already factored in the inevitable when President Jacob Zuma took an axe to his Cabinet at midnight on Thursday.The market reaction has so far been subdued. For example, the rand is still trading between R13.60/$ and R13.70/$, whereas one could have expected a drop to about R16/$. The currency opened trading at R13.75/$, but retreated in the afternoon to trade at R13.70/$ while all was looking green in the JSE All Share index including the financials indices, which recouped some previous losses, gaining 0.04% around 3pm.Reacting to S&amp;P s move of downgrading South Africa into a junk status, citing political and institutional uncertainty, new Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said they acknowledged the agency s announcement and that it was a setback for the country. Despite our current challenges, now is not a time for despondency. We have many strengths that we can leverage to grow our economy inclusively. We will act decisively as the government, in collaboration with all economic social partners to remedy the situation going forward, Gigaba said.He said there was no need to panic, but to pursue economic growth in a vigorous way, by taking into consideration that the country was sitting on R2.2 trillion in public debt. About 10%, or R220bn of this debt, is dominated and repaid in foreign currency. Our rand-dominated debt, which constitutes 90% of the portfolio, remains investment-grade rated, he said.Gigaba said one of the key reasons mentioned by S&amp;P for a downgrade was political uncertainty, but we remain confident that we can get this under control . We are not downplaying S&amp;P s sentiments but our macroeconomic fundamentals are still strong and we have no intention to change that. Treasury has already written to the ruling party, business and labour requesting a meeting to discuss recent changes and how to address them, the minister said.In addition, Gigaba said it was possible for the country to achieve inclusive growth and that it was also possible to be able to agree on policy choices that could ignite the economy. We will continue to make assessment of the economy to find a better way, and bring alternatives where necessary. We will also take assistance from our predecessors for better ideas. Not necessarily from Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas, but from former ministers such as Trevor Manuel and Nhlanhla Nene. We will support any advice that they bring to our attention, he said.The minister noted that what these credit rating reviews highlight is to reignite the country s growth engine, and that is what they are focusing on at hand. Deputy Finance Minister Sfiso Buthelezi said downgrading was not good for economic growth, but the Treasury and other stakeholders would try all avenues to rescue the country. It would be wrong to believe that the Treasury had a silver bullet for all the challenges the country is facing. We must work together for a better economic growth, he said.John Cairns, an RMB analyst, wrote that one more downgrade will see South Africa starting to lose investments into the local bond market, the main source of financial inflows in the past few years. Given that S&amp;P remains strangely optimistic on certain issues relating to GDP growth, a further downgrade seems quite possible, although probably only on a 12-18 month view, Cairns wrote.The good news is that by 5.15pm, the currency rebounded, gaining 1.22% to trade firmer at R13.52/$, much better compared to opening trade while the JSE All Share index was up 0.75%, with financial 0.08% a bit stronger compared to previous day.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za