Following a stuttering run in the early part of the season, Kaizer Chiefs have managed to steady the ship and are now on an unbeaten run of 11 matches in all competitions.Chiefs have a shot at achieving a double, with the Nedbank Cup and PSL title within reach. Their change in fortune has come as a result of the fighting spirit and commitment they have shown recently and this could be a good omen going into the final matches of the season. Amakhosi showed their fighting spirit when they were trailing 1-0 against Acornbush FC in the Nedbank Cup two weeks ago, scoring two quick goals to win 2-1.They also showed the same quality with a late goal in their 1-0 victory over Chippa United in the league on Saturday. Amakhosi meet SuperSport United in the Nedbank Cup at FNB Stadium on Saturday eager to progress to the semifinals and midfielder Siphiwe Tshabalala has urged his side to maintain the same commitment they have showed of late. We went through a phase at the beginning of the season when things went horribly wrong, but I am happy that we stuck together as a team and behind Steve Komphela, Tshabalala said. We believed in his coaching abilities. He is a quality coach who believes in his players and I m happy that finally, things are looking good. We are playing good football and the results are coming. We ve not won anything yet but we are optimistic that if we continue working hard good things will come. Tshabalala has also urged his teammates to keep their feet firmly on the ground and avoid complacency. We have a responsibility as a team and there are objectives which we have to focus on and I think we are getting there, we are on the right track. With Chiefs, Cape Town City, Bidvest Wits and Mamelodi Sundowns all challenging for the league title, the 32-year-old midfielder feels the eventual champions could be decided in the final match of the season. I believe it is good for SA football that it is no longer two or three big teams challenging for the league. Everyone has a chance. It s sure going to be an exciting month towards the end of the season. -Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za