New Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi assured rail commuters that he views the late arrivals or non-arrivals of trains as a serious matter.In his first press conference since his appointment last Thursday with Deputy Minister Sindisiwe Chikhunga at his side, he said he would address the issue because passengers should get efficient service. It s a cause for concern. There are instances where trains pick up people very late. This is a matter that has to be attended as a matter of urgency. Our rail system has to be safe and reliable. This is a matter we will attend to so people are not delayed when going to work or school, Maswanganyi said.This intervention, he said, would be to make sure our passenger rail system is efficient .Maswanganyi also said it was President Jacob Zuma s prerogative to hire and fire ministers. When the president appointed me on Thursday he never gave me a reason and when I get reshuffled I won t expect him to give me reasons. I have a high regard for the former minister, she was my leader at many levels. I have known her for many years and what the president does is his mandate, Maswanganyi said.Maswanganyi s previous positions includes ANC Limpopo provincial secretary from 2008 to date, Limpopo MEC for sport, arts and culture from 2004 to 2007 and a member of the Limpopo provincial legislature from 1994 to 2007.He said he had met with the senior management of the transport department to ensure a seamless transition.He said his department was ready to implement eNatis and the system would be housed in a building that would be a national key point.Maswanganyi said he would respect decisions taken by his predecessor Dipuo Peters. He would therefore also not intervene in the court case in which former board members of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), including chairperson Popo Molefe, were challenging the dissolution of that body.However, he said there has to be a governing structure to ensure that decisions were taken. If the court takes a decision, we will respect that outcome. It was important that we stabilise Prasa to make sure they discharge their mandate on behalf of the government, he said.On the situation at the Airports Company of South Africa (Acsa), he said he was aware that there were board members who have been relieved. We will attend to the issue of Acsa. We will have to attend to it objectively, he said.He said one of his priorities would be to deliver on Zuma s nine-point economic recovery plan.He said he would also ensure when rolling out infrastructure that sectors that had not benefited before would be prioritised.He said his department was key when it came to the issue of road safety. The issue of road safety is a societal matter. We call on society as a whole to make sure we spread the message of road safety. As the department we will be central in that message, he said.On road infrastructure, he said Sanral was continuing with the R4.5bn upgrade of the infamous Moloto Road. The Moloto Road is under construction with the purpose of ensuring the safety of road users and also bringing to an end to the accidents that claim many lives, he said.Maswanganyi assured the public that the government was listening to concerns raised about toll roads. We shall engage with all relevant stakeholders on the contentious issues of e-tolling, taking cue from the existing government policies as well as the concerns of our people, he said.DENNIS CRUYWAGEN and KUTULLO MADISHAnews@thenewage.co.za