Bloemfontein Celtic striker Ayanda Cobra Dlamini believes their side could have done better had their new coach Luc Eymael been on the bench for the past four matches.The astute Belgian tactician is yet to bark instructions from the Celtic technical bench as his case with former employers Polokwane City is dragging on. City, who are seeking compensation of R2.8m, have argued at the PSL Dispute Resolution Chamber (DRC) that the 57-year-old former AS Vita, AC Leopards and Al Merreich coach abruptly quit them. The DRC last week failed to deliver a judgment on the dispute and instead asked lawyers for both parties to submit heads of argument including written arguments summing up the position of the opposing parties before making a decision.As a result of the case, Emayel has only been allowed in the change room before the match and at halftime. Dlamini believes were it not for the dispute, Celtic s fortunes could have changed. You have to look at the immediate impact he has made since coming to the club. We have had one win and two draws and are placed 13th on the log after the Chiefs loss. We are in the Nedbank Cup quarterfinals facing Orlando Pirates away from home. That just shows you he is a shrewd tactician. He introduced a lot of things and the guys are enjoying his training sessions. He has brains and is a good reader of opposition. You can see the knowledge he has imparted to Seema and Maduka. But they have also done well by improvising under the circumstances. Dlamini said everybody was pushing to be selected with seven matches remaining. The competition is tight and everyone wants to contribute to helping the team avoid relegation and do well in the Nedbank Cup. The former AmaZulu forward said the emphasis from the technical staff to the players has been to fully focus on both tasks. We want to collect points to steer clear of relegation while we know a passage to the semifinals will boost morale because in cup games anything is possible. Dlamini believes they will complete the double over Pirates on Saturday. We beat them 2-1 in their backyard last time and we feel we can inflict more pain. The mood in the camp is good and the guys are raring to go. -Linda Ximba|news@thenewage.co.za