The shooting in the Reina nightclub in Istanbul on New Year s Eve again focused the world s attention on Turkey. But terrorism is just one of several crises Turkey is currently facing.The Turkish parliament is drafting legislation to change the constitution to allow Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey s non-executive president, to assume greater political power. The lira is sliding. Turkey may be close to a full-blown currency crisis. All of these crises are closely related to Turkey s convoluted involvement in Syria, the failed 2016 military coup, and the resurgence of military action against the Kurds.On January 10, the Financial Times reported the lira had lost almost a fifth of its value against the dollar. A sharp contraction in the third quarter, political uncertainty and social unrest had investors worried. Only a sizeable rise in interest rates would stabilise the currency, but this is unlikely.President Erdogan insists interest rates be kept down, leaving the Turkish central bank with limited options to prevent the lira s continuing fall. Erdogan blames the nation s economic problems on a conspiracy by international financiers and on Turks who keep dollars under their pillows . He equated holding foreign currency to terrorism.The lira s fall and the terrorist attacks are contributing to the nation s political instability. While attacks involving foreigners get the most international coverage, Turkey suffered 269 terrorist attacks in 2016.Turks themselves have become afraid of going to public spaces. The attacks keep coming despite President Erdogan s extension of the state of emergency, imposed last year following the coup attempt in July.Since the failed coup, officials say 41000 people have been arrested and more than 100000 suspended or dismissed from civil service positions. Last week hundreds more police officers, civil servants and academics were dismissed according to Anadolu, the state news agency.More than 80 associations accused of activities affecting the security of the state were closed. At least 144 journalists have been jailed and over 150 media outlets closed down. Erdogan claims followers of exiled cleric Fethullah Gulen precipitated the coup attempt and the AKP-led Turkish government has been open about its plans to eradicate Gulenist from Turkish political life.Critics say the purge has become indiscriminate and is simply an excuse to get rid of anyone who has opposes Erdogan. Exceptional security measures are also necessary, according to the government, to counter rising threats from the IS and the Kurdistan Workers Party, which typically gets blamed even when not involved.Erdogan has ruled Turkey for 11 years as prime minister and two years as president. He announced his desire for an executive presidency in an interview published in the Hurrieyt Sabah newspaper in 2003. He made it a priority after he became Turkey s first popularly elected president in 2014.Turkey s constitution bestows only symbolic powers to the president. Political authority rests in the prime minister s hands. Erdogan has been wielding executive power for some time and flouting constitutional provisions by not remaining neutral regarding political parties and retaining control over parliamentarians from his own party, the AKP.What the AKP wants now is not separation of powers but presidential control of executive and legislative branches and the judiciary. In short, they want authority to be concentrated in the presidency. Erdogan s AKP lacks the necessary votes to rewrite the constitution unilaterally. It needs support from the right-wing National Movement Party, the fourth largest party in parliament.This could result in a strong nationalist bent, and lead to institutionalised authoritarianism and the demise of dialogue on the Kurdish problem. Initially backing the Syrian rebels, Turkey allowed weapons and money to funnel across its border to IS. Recently, however, Erdogan seems to have made a deal with Putin to allow Russia to defeat the rebels, possibly in exchange for invading the Kurdish-majority areas in northern Syria with impunity.Turkey is at a political crossroads, and the world will watch with bated breath.&#8211; Tom Wheeler is an independent commentator and former diplomat.