The Free State s holistic approach in supporting pupils was celebrated by scores of pupils and different stakeholders at the Phuthadithjaba multi purpose centre yesterday.Premier Ace Magashule, education MEC Tate Makgoe, finance MEC Elzabe Rockman and education head of departmment Tshoarelo Malakoane expressed their happiness after the province achieved the top spot in the country with an 88.2% matric pass rate last year.The province also topped the country in 2014.Magashule said their success was based on making education a societal issue, involving all relevant stakeholders.The province also produced the highest number of pupils who passed their 2016 Grade 12 examinations, being the first one to break the 90% threshold. We have prioritised education as the country s president said we should make it a societal issue. It is our first priority, Magashule said.Makgoe said they were excited that a school in QwaQwa got a 100% pass rate with 90% of them attaining bachelor s degree passes.He attributed the success to having a relationship with community radio stations and pupils reacting positively.He said they had started early this year and would hold meetings with community radio stations to analyse results to see how they could improve them.Makgoe also vowed to ensure the department did not fail in providing resources for teachers and pupils. We need to put proper support systems for pupils and teachers to ensure continuity. Excellence is a norm in the Free State. It does not pay to cheat because it will catch up with you. Even if you can be a doctor it will come up, 20 years later, he said.He said that QwaQwa had the top performing schools in mathematics and science and had produced many distinctions. The top pupils who achieved 100% in maths and science are black. We also have one in accounting. We are No 2 in mathematics in the country but we are No 1 in physics, geography, life science and accounting, he said.He also said the provincial government would build a special school and that operations were under way in the Xhariep district. The apartheid legacy is still continuing because the small provinces do not get proper facilities, Magashule said.The best performing schools who scored 80% or above have been enjoying incentives such as trips and new laboratories. These initiatives have actually helped to improve township and village schools facilities, he said.Pupils who have performed exceptionally well also shared their experiences and future plans.Refilwe Magongoana said she was grateful for the support of her peers and teachers. I got seven distinctions out of seven subjects. It was all through teamwork. I will be going to UCT for actuarial science, she said.One of the Free State government bursary recipients, Seadimo Tlale, said she was proud of being a beneficiary of the province s education system. I was part of the only black girls representing SA in chess. I just graduated with cum laude, she said.Finance MEC Elsabe Rockman said the provincial bursary scheme was a priority.The department of education has also vowed to put all system together in fixing schools, making sure the shortages of furniture at schools and overcrowding is sorted out.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za