Power utility Eskom, recorded losses of more than R4bn for electricity theft in various forms including ghost vending, meter tampering and bypassing and illegal connections, according to the company s interim group chief executive, Matshela Koko.The selling of illegal vouchers known as ghost vending is often pushed by syndicates and the illicit practice alone costs the utility losses in revenue of up to R600m per annum, Koko said. We have machines that we used for vending a while ago that we have since discontinued. Some of them have landed in the wrong hands, and continue to be used. We call the practice ghost vending, Koko said during a radio interview on 702.Recently a joint operation between the South African Police Service and Hawks arrested a suspect with R8500 in cash, proceeds believed to be from selling illegal prepaid electricity vouchers.The suspect was caught with 598 illegal prepaid vouchers and faces fraud charges after a case was opened with the police.A beneficiary of the illegal vouchers, a Diepsloot resident, who wants to remain anonymous, told the New Age that she bought the stolen electricity to save money. When I buy electricity from these guys, they give me more units than when I buy from a supermarket. For example when I buy from them, I pay R200 and they will give me electricity worth up to R500. So that electricity lasts longer and I can save money, she said..Eskom issued a warning to consumers who purchase illegal vouchers that they could find be caught and prosecuted as prepaid voucher purchases are monitored. Eskom generates reports and trends on the electricity purchase patterns of customers. Illegal electricity purchases are identified when no purchased records exist for meters with prepaid electricity loaded on Eskom s systems, said Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe Buying illegal electricity vouchers is a crime and is punishable by law. Those found using illegal prepaid electricity vouchers can face disconnection, fines and even legal prosecution. Phasiwe told The New Age that the utility recovered some of the funds lost to ghost vending through remedial charges for reconnections which resulted from disconnections when consumers were caught using illegal electricity vouchers.Eskom has acknowledged the possibility that there are cases where Eskom employees collude with the ghost vending syndicates , a problem it has vowed to deal with decisively. Investigations have resulted in the apprehension and prosecution of vending syndicates selling electricity illegally, Phasiwe said.Dileep John, Eskom s head of Operation Khanyisa, a national campaign aimed at fighting electricity, strongly condemned the theft of electricity, warning that it had consequences on a grand scale. The loss of revenue suffered by Eskom due to this crime contributes to the need for the national power utility to increase the tariffs charged to paying customers. The price for ghost vending is therefore paid by society as a whole, John said.-Siphiwe Mchununews@thenewage.co.za