AN 18-YEAR-OLD male was arrested for the attempted murder of a Metro police officer in Hanover Park at the weekend.A police officer is murdered every four days in South Africa and 712 were attacked last year, 81% of them on duty.This is according to the 2016 SAPS statistics, which revealed that 37 cops had been killed between January 1 to December last year.The Western Cape reported the most attacks on officers which came to a total of 274. On Friday, members of Metro police came under fire when they responded to a shooting incident in Athwood Road, Hanover Park. Members returned fire and in the process a 40-year-old constable was shot and wounded.The constable sustained gunshot wounds to his stomach and left hand. He was taken to hospital for medical treatment.The car in which the Metro police members were travelling was damaged and had bullet holes in the windscreen.No other property or persons were affected by the shooting. Shortly after the incident, police launched an integrated crime prevention operation to stabilise the Hanover Park area.Spearheading the integrated crime prevention operation was the deputy cluster commander of the Mitchells Plain cluster, Brig Mmagauta Letsoalo, joined by Metro police deputy chief Annelene Marais.Law enforcement and traffic also formed part of the integrated crime prevention operation. Police brought in several suspects and four were positively linked to crimes for which warrants of arrest had been issued.They are due to appear in the Athlone Magistrate s Court soon. Several drug outlets and homes of well-known self-proclaimed gang leaders were raided.Tik lollies and dagga were among the items seized at a wellknown drug outlet in Turflyn Walk, Hanover Park. Vehicle check points were also set up. During the crime prevention operation police were also searching for the suspect who had shot at the Metro police officials earlier that morning.An 18 year old, accompanied by his legal representative, handed himself over to Philippi police, claiming that he had shot at the Metro police officials earlier in the day.Letsoalo condemned the attack on the officers and said Philippi police would maintain a zero tolerance approach to criminals.He urged the community of Hanover Park to come forward with information on crime. Anyone with information about crime that can assist the police can call Crime Stop at 0860010111. All information will be treated as highly confidential, he said.The police killings statistics revealed Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal reported the highest number of murders at 10 each.The Hawks are waging war on those targeting officers. In Cape Town, specialised police units swooped on suspected cop killers in raids across the city.-TATENDA CHIRISERI