South Africa had another bloody festive season on its roads, recording an increase in fatalities from the previous year.Transport Minister Dipuo Peters yesterday revealed a 5% spike in the road carnage nationally. A total of 1714 fatalities were recorded in this festive season period, which is a 5% increase on the previous period. Contributing factors to the road accidents were human and vehicle factors as well as road and environmental factors, Peters said.Limpopo recorded the highest increase of 31%, moving from 186 fatalities in the previous festive season to 244 deaths this time.The KZN was second with a spike of 18% followed closely by Free State at 17%. KZN, GP, Eastern Cape and Limpopo jointly accounted for 61% of the total number of people who died on the road this season.The minister said corruption within the country s driving licensing testing centres also contributed to the high number of road accidents.Peters said there was an influx of drivers who were not competent or qualified to be driving on the roads. I have instructed the Road Traffic Management Corporation to undertake an audit of how driving licences as well as road safety certificates are processed and issued in our testing stations, so that we can have an appreciation of how it is possible that so many incompetent drivers and unroadworthy vehicles could be on our roads. On the basis of the findings, it is expected that affected individuals will be called back for re-evaluation.Peters said a significant amount of financial resources were invested to promote awareness across many media platforms but people still ignored the efforts.The minister said the department is looking at reclassifying drunk driving from a Schedule 3 to Schedule 5 offence. We will continue our engagements and finalise with the Department of Justice to introduce minimum sentences for negligent and reckless driving. Peters said she was gratified to note that while some traffic officers were arrested for taking bribes, others took a bold stance against bribery and corruption.Some of the good examples include Fulton Flinger from the Eastern Cape, who arrested four motorists for trying to offer bribes to avoid fines for speeding and possessing fraudulent documents. I also commend the national anti-corruption unit for their efforts to ensure that we eliminate unethical traffic officers who solicit bribes. Traffic law enforcement officers conducted more than 400 roadblocks throughout the country, issuing 453263 fines for various traffic offences. Of particular interest is that 28238 of these fines were for drivers who failed to wear their seatbelts, while 4046 were for using cellphones while driving. And 6805 unroadworthy vehicles were suspended or discontinued while 2501 other motor vehicles were impounded. Officers arrested 9175 motorists and 5943 of them were held for drunken driving.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za