EAST London is preparing itself for one of its biggest annual events, the Standard Bank Ironman 70.3 triathlon, on Sunday. The city has issued an advisory about road closures and alternative routes that can be used throughout the duration of the event. The no-go areas are the Orient Theatre parking, where the race will begin and head on to Orient Road, Currie Street onto the Esplanade and then left into Moore Street all the way to John Baillie Road and into Buffalo Park Drive, North East Expressway, N2 direction, Berlin off-ramp and on to the Berlin Industrial Area, the N2 on ramp direction East London and left onto North East Expressway on-ramp. The cyclists will return to the Orient Theatre car park using the same route. The Buffalo City municipality said this year s race is expected to pull more pro-athletes from around the world including defending champions, Jodie Swallow and Matt Trautmann. The metro s mayor Xola Pakati said he was delighted that the city hosts the prestigious event each year. As hosts of such an important sporting event, Buffalo City receives international and local compliments. The event gives the city an opportunity to show the world the true South African hospitality as well as boosting tourism and adding to the economy of the city, Pakati said. Buffalo City is ready to host the 2017 edition of the Ironman 70.3 and we are looking forward to the spectacular race. The race kicks off at 7am with a 1.9km swim at East London s Orient Beach, the swim s first leg will be 300m long, the marker must be rounded on the right hand side (marker must be on your left). After turning left around this buoy the next leg is 700m, this buoy must also be rounded on the right hand side. The following leg is 200m long and again you must round the buoy on the right. The final leg before the exit to the beach is 500m long and you need to round this last buoy on the left. The exit to the beach is 200m away. The cut-off time for the swim is one hour and 10 minutes. Following the swim is a 90km cycle on the N2 highway. The first portion is along the Esplanade (beachfront) whereafter the route follows the R72 motorway towards the Nahoon River. The route then turns left and follows the N2 highway towards King William s Town. It is a continuous climb with a few flat sections to the turnaround point at Berlin just outside East London at 45km. The return route is on the opposite side of the N2 highway back to transition. Aid Stations will be available at the 18km, 45km and 72km marks. The cut-off time for the cycle is four hours and five minutes. TNA REPORTER&nbsp;