THE Hawks in the province have once again nipped corruption in the bud in the public sector. Spokesperson Capt Philani Nkwalase said a former police WO Peter Waites attached to Galeshewe detectives appeared in the Kimberley regional court on a charge of corruption.The case against Waites is the latest in the series of cases involving former employees in the public sector being investigated and prosecuted for fraud, corruption and maladministration.Nkwalase said Waites was found guilty of corruption and the case was remanded to March 10 for sentencing. On Wednesday July 9, 2014, an investigation was conducted after the matter had been reported to the Hawks and Waites was arrested on the scene. He was granted R1000 bail during his first court appearance on July 15 in 2014, Nkwalase said. Nkwalase said they were working around the clock to ensure that they brought all those who broke the law to book. He said the Hawks had been successful in ensuring that they arrested people guilty of corruption both in the public and private sector. From time to time we do get random incidents from different departments including the police service as it was with this particular case, he said. Nkwalase said the Hawks would work with all relevant stakeholders to ensure that they brought all the culprits to book.He could not deny or confirm if fraud and corruption cases in the province, particularly, was on the rise. However, Nkwalase said the Hawks had a successful year in rooting out corruption in the public sector during 2016.Recently Hawks arrested a finance administrative clerk in Springbok involving a case worth R3.4m which involved Siyabonga Mangqishi and could lead to more arrests during the course of the investigations.Mangqishi was arrested last week and appeared in the Springbok Magistrate s Court on various charges of fraud. According to the Hawks, he allegedly falsified financial documents and received payments into his personal account.Nkwalase said personal particulars of numerous fellow colleagues were used to submit fictitious applications requesting cash advances and claims that varied from meals and accommodation costs as well as renewal of state vehicle licence discs.The provincial government has tabled a draft anti-corruption and fraud management plan in the office of the premier. The activities for anti-corruption and fraud management are given effect by anti-corruption strategy which incorporates anti-corruption strategy, policy and whistle blowing, the plan reads. tiisetsom@thenewage.co.zaTIISETSO MANOKO