While millions of people throughout the world live in abject poverty, women bear the brunt of inequality especially in South Africa, according to an Oxfam report. The report states that 1% of men own more than half the world s wealth. This 1% comprises eight men who own the same wealth as the 3.6 billion people who make up the poorest half of humanity. A similar anomaly exists in South Africa where three billionaires have, the same amount of wealth as the bottom 50% of the country. Inequality is not affecting all of us the same way. It is very gender-biased. Women continue to absorb all the crisis we are talking about. When you talk about the economy that is not benefiting the poorest of the poor, women are at the bottom of the poorest of the poor, the University of Cape Town s Dr Asanda Benya said.Benya was speaking at the release of Oxfam s inequality report which calls on the world and business elite gathering at the World Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, to act against increasing levels of inequality.Oxfam South Africa, economic justice manager s Ayabonga Cawe called on the world leaders at Davos to build a human economy that prioritises the needs of the 99% rather than a status quo which is in the interest of the 1% .The report found that employed women were often paid lower wages, were discriminated against and involved in unpaid care work.It predicted that itwould take 170 years for women to be paid what men earned.Benya said that despite the fact that the economy was not benefiting women, their role within the sectorwas significant. Women are the one s who have to absorb the pressures if the economy is not paying workers enough money.It s women who have to make other provisions in order to provide for their families if the income people are getting is not enough. The economy is not necessarily servicing women. It s not benefiting them to the same extent as men, she said.Doing unpaid care work, she said, was one of the major drivers of poverty in South Africa.The report also found that elite businesses were worsening inequality by dodging taxes, paying slave wages and using their positions to influence politics.Oxfam SA executive director Sipho Mthathi also said that building economies which catered not only for business, was important to reduce inequality. Governments, including the South African government, can act to help everyone not just those at the top.They can build an economy where businesses pay their taxes and contribute to the wider good; where everyone is able to be healthy and educated, Mthathi said.ZODIDI MHLANAzodidim@thenewage.co.za