The KwaZulu-Natal department of health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo has dismissed claims made by Riaan van der Westhuizen that he was mistreated in a state hospital in Durban.Riaan Westhuizen was treated for stab wounds at of RK Khan Hospital in Chatsworth three weeks ago, following a hijacking on 28 December 2016.The patient has made claims that he was left unattended in the casualty ward before his heart stopped.&#8220;My arm was hanging like dangling. It was blue, cold. I layed there for about two and half hours screaming, shout for help. Please help me, I am gonna loose my arm,&#8221; said WesthuizenHowever Dhlomo said Being a doctor myself, if anyone was to say they had a cardiac arrest, and live to tell the story it doesn t happen. It doesn t exist. Cardiac arrest means your heart stops beating. And when your heart stops beating, you die. You are not there to tell a story.&#8221;Westhuizen took videos showing parts of the hospital that were dirty and unattended to.MEC Dhlomo personally went to RK Khan on the 18 January 2017 to meet with the hospital&#8217;s management.To his shock after reviewing the patients files, he found his claims to be false. The patient refused to be treated by a black nurse.Dhlomo was informed by hospital staff that the patient had displayed a racist attitude toward the staff. All of these allegations are coming in from someone who s extremely ungrateful if you consider the extent of his injuries the laceration on his arm before coming to this hospital. We ve heard him making comments to our staff members that he doesn t want to be treated by Black nurses. He s either in the wrong country and wrong hospital,&#8221; said Dhlomo.In a statement MEC Dhlomo said dismissed that the patient&#8217;s wound could be infected because the wound was left open so medical personnel could attend to it. This patient came in with a laceration from an instrument that he can t even show us. So, the starting point is that his wound was dirty, to start with,Sometimes the wound is infected by the very skin of the patient, Dhlomo said.&nbsp;TNA Reporter