As bogus rehabilitation centres mushroom in KwaZulu-Natal, the provincial department of social development has urged parents to check the legitimacy of rehab centres before signing up their addicted children for treatment.The department s spokesperson Ncumisa Ndelu said they had identified 10 shady rehab centres and six of them were operating in the eThekwini district. The departments of social development and health will conduct an investigation and, based on the findings, will take appropriate action which may include closure, Ndelu said.He said parents should look out for certificates of registration as an NPO or business as well as registration with the department of social development. These certificates must be on display at the centre and if they are not, parents have a right to ask for them, she said.Chairperson of the Anti-Drug Forum in Durban, Sam Pillay, said there were more than 10 fly-by-night rehab centres operating in Durban.Pillay said the culprits behind these illicit treatment centres were exploiting the shortage of state facilities in the province. There are not enough state-owned rehab centres. There is only one situated in Newlands Park and there is a long waiting list, Pillay said. There are a lot of private rehabs. They are expensive and cater for the rich. So the majority of people who need help are excluded from both because the state one is full while the private rehabs are expensive. Pillay said as a result, desperate parents turned to fly-by-nights because they were a lot cheaper than private rehabs. The parents of the drug addicts go there seeking help and they do not know if the rehab centres are legal or not, he saidSouth African National Council on Alcohol and Drug Dependence spokesperson Adrie Vermeulen said fake treatment centres could cause damage to patients if they were given the wrong treatment. The treatment of substance abuse has both a medical and social component. Certain substances like nyaope need medical and therapeutic services to overcome it. The risk could be that these centres don t offer medical care to deal with complex withdrawal symptoms as well as dual diagnosis or co-occurring disorders best dealt with by psychiatrists and psychologists, Vermeulen said. Clients with opiate addictions must be medically monitored and each person has their own set of health risks that the medical team needs to take into consideration for the client s treatment regime. Cold turkey for opiate addiction is life-threatening. The best is a supervised detox in a hospital or an accredited detoxification centre. Vermeulen said the rules set out by the department of social department for rehab centres were there for a reason. There are no shortcuts when it comes to people s lives. We as professionals need to protect our client s rights and ensure that we act ethically always to meet all the needs of our client, she said Treatment is complex and addiction must be understood from a scientific perception as well as from a medical and psychological perceptive. Research shows that treatment must focus on all levels of functioning of the person. LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za