The city of Johannesburg s Anti-Corruption Unit led by Richard Sibiya yesterday arrested seven licencing centre officials. The suspects will face corruption charges when they appear in court.The unit has identified 106 allegedly corrupt licencing centre officials who will be arrested in the coming days and face the full might of the law.Three suspects from the Sandton Licencing Department and four suspects from the Martindale Bulk Licencing Department were arrested by the Hawks on charges of fraud.One suspect is in hospital and has been placed in an isolated ward while the others were arrested at work and home. Each of the suspects will be immediately suspended pending swift disciplinary processes by the city, mayor Herman Mashaba said.Between January 2008 and February 2016, 972 alleged fraudulent transactions of R14.7m were identified within the city of Johannesburg. Through the investigation conducted by Sibiya, we have determined that the problem is not limited to the city of Johannesburg. Between January 2008 and February 2016, these fraudulent transactions were valued at R155m nationally, he said.ANC Joburg spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said: Sibiya is acting on work in which investigations were done, it is not like they came up with investigations. They must continue to do their work. Mashaba said yesterday s arrests, made possible through close collaboration between the city s Anti-Corruption Unit and the Hawks, formed part of a planned strike against criminal syndicates and corrupt licensing officials operating licensing scams.Mashaba said the syndicates colluded with licencing officials to perform illegal transactions on the computer system.This included collusion to unlawfully allow motorists to obtain drivers licenses, disc licenses and to register vehicles.Licencing officials would then pocket cash that would have ordinarily been paid to the city and utilised for much-needed service delivery. I would like to thank Sibiya and his team for their exemplary work. I urge them to continue rooting out corruption within the city at every level, without fear or favour. I would also like to thank the member of the mayoral committee for public safety, councillor Michael Sun, for his role in ensuring the success of this investigation, despite facing resistance within the council from members of the previous administration who denied the existence of any corruption, he said.Mashaba said there were many hard-working, honest civil servants in the city. I encourage these individuals to join me in the fight against corruption and ask them to step forward so we may root out this practice together. The days when corrupt officials would get a gentle slap on the wrist or be shifted to a different department are over. Those found guilty of corruption will be prosecuted and stolen money reclaimed, he said.Mashaba said working closely with the Hawks, the SAPS, JMPD and the residents of this city, they would continue to wage war on corruption.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za