ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe yesterday put the brakes on attempts made within the party to parachute former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe into Parliament.Briefing the media at the party s Luthuli House headquarters, Mantashe said the ANC had certain procedures that should be followed before any member could be nominated for a Parliamentary seat.He said before Molefe could be redeployed to Parliament, he had to follow due process according to the ANC s national and provincial lists for parliamentary seats. It must wait for the anniversary of its last amendment and at that point you can reprioritise the list. If it reprioritises Brian then he ll be the first to replace whoever if there s a vacancy. Or if the list is depleted then you can replenish the list with names. There are no shortcuts, you don t wake up one day and go to Parliament. It does not happen that way. Mantashe s comments come against the background of media reports suggesting that the ANC in the North West province punted Molefe as Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s replacement amid speculation of a looming Cabinet reshuffle.Mantashe, making reference to recent remarks attributed to S&amp;P managing director for South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa, Konrad Reuss, on the party s succession debate, said Reuss comments bordered on mischief . Why should ratings agencies enter the debate about a reshuffle and succession debate of the ANC. A ratings agency that wants to tell us what to do cannot be acceptable. We are not working for ratings agencies, we are working for the country. Once it begins to tell us who should be the next president, then it is entering a space that is dangerous. Mantashe also said the ANC viewed reports that the party ran a covert campaign to taint the image of opposition political parties ahead of the 2016 local government elections in a serious manner. Please allow us to deal with this matter. We are appealing to you to give us space. We take it as a very serious matter. If there are recordings and other evidence, we will deal with that in a disciplinary process, he said.Mantashe, however, declined to comment further on the ANC s alleged black ops campaign.Commenting on the outcomes of the party s NEC lekgotla, Mantashe said economic growth and accelerated radical socio-economic transformation were some of the priorities on the ruling party s agenda. Our main objective remains the liberation of blacks in general and Africans in particular, Mantashe said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za