The curiosity of an American professor has led to the discovery of the long-neglected grave of the widow of John Langalibalele Dube, one of the ANC s founding members and its first president.Very little is known about Nokutela Mdima Dube who helped shape the life of Dube.The William H. Laird professor of French and the liberal arts, Cherif Keita, discovered Nokutela Dube s grave in Johannesburg through his 17 years of research into South African History.It was during a trip with his 17 American friends that he picked up the name of John Dube.Keita then conducted research into South Africa s history which revealed the story behind John Dube s life. The month-long trip took us through the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. It was during this trip that I heard for the first time the name of John Dube as the founder of the ANC and of the Ohlange Institution as the place where Nelson Mandela voted. I realised my ignorance of such an African pioneer and decided to educate myself about him, Keita said.In his research Keita figured that there was no way that one person could have conquered everything without a little help . I knew that John Dube did not do all these great things alone: starting the first industrial education school (Ohlange in 1900), and the newspaper Ilanga lase Natal in 1903. I knew that she (Nokutela Mdima Dube) had contributed greatly to fund-raising in America to make these ground-breaking institutions possible and also to their survival over the years. Yet, her name was not being recognised. Therefore, I tried to understand who she was and why she had been out of the picture. This led me to discover that she had died very young (44 years of age) with no children, Keita said.Keita combed through the microfilms of Ilanga from 1903 until 1946, the year of John Dube s death, for articles in both English and Zulu and came across one article in January 1917 that said: uNokutela Dube kasekho (Nokuthula Dube is dead).He quickly realised that this was the information he was looking for and which no one had been able to give him before.The Dube family did not know where she was buried and later he realised that her own extended family did not know as well. I discovered the mention of Brixton cemetery in Johannesburg. I quickly contacted the Johannesburg parks and cemetery department and together we worked very diligently to pinpoint her unmarked grave by 2011, Keita said.He added that this was a long process because the section for black people was and is still like a bush .When Nokutela died, her grave had a small plaque that read CK 2973/Christan Kaffir and even that small identification, disappeared, leaving a great woman in total anonymity for almost 95 years. It was after they found her grave that he contacted the Mdima family and the Dubes, so that together they give her dignity and some recognition.She was born into the Mdima clan in 1873 and was the first wife of Dube. She was the person who built in equal partnership with him in everything that is known today as Dube s legacy.Together they raised funds in the United States between 1896 and 1899 to build the Ohlange Institute (1900), the newspaper Ilanga lase Natal(1903) and many other pioneering institutions that furthered the cause of multiracial democracy in colonial South Africa. Her many talents were crucial in the establishment of the ground-breaking educational institution that Ohlange became from the very first day of its existence in Inanda.Inkosi Albert Luthuli was taught and fed by Nokutela Dube at the Ohlange Institute in 1914.Keita has helped raising funds for the family put up a proper tombstone for the great women many South Africans know little about.The Mdima s family said it was a blessing that was brought to their lives five years ago when her grave was discovered. We are generally excited that we have had such an outstanding person who is one of us and feel richly blessed that she was a trailblazer in terms of woman s participation in politics and education a Mdima descendant, Joyce Siwani, said.Nokutela Dube was educated at Inanda Seminary and became one of the earliest graduates of this prestigious institution.She received additional training in the United States at the Union Missionary Training Institute in Brooklyn, New York, between 1896 and 1899.She is the coauthor with John L. Dube of a book titled Amagama Abantu (A Zulu Song Book), 1911, a book which stands as a landmark in the development of Zulu choral music.It is through her efforts as a music teacher and choral director at Ohlange that the song, Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika, became known as the anthem of the struggle for the African dignity.Up until her death in January 1917, Nokutela travelled many times with her husband John to the United States to gather financial support for their work to uplift South Africa through education. The discovery of the grave has helped our family to be more knowledgeable about Nokutela, the role she played, Siwani said.In August last year Freedom Park memorialised Nokutela Dube.-Charlote Hlangwane