Accusations that Standard &amp; Poor s (S&amp;P) is attempting to influence the ANC s succession battle mounted yesterday with NEC member Malusi Gigaba, Cosatu, the South African Communist Party (SACP) and the ANC Women s League (ANCWL) accusing the global ratings agency of interfering in the party s internal political issues.Speaking at the Deloitte Africa 2017 Outlook conference in Johannesburg last week, S&amp;P managing director for South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa, Konrad Reuss said South Africa must do the right thing to avoid a credit downgrade.Reuss said issues like a cabinet reshuffle would harm the economy.With reference to the ANC s elective conference in December this year, Reuss said: Again, do the right thing and do it while you go on contesting for your leadership .Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini described Reuss comments as nonsensical and charged that the comment was a blatant attempt by the ratings agency to influence the ANC s internal affairs. We should condemn the conduct of S&amp;P in the strongest possible terms. These people are not neutral on the political issues of the country.The tendency for them to behave as if they know what is in the president s (President Jacob Zuma) mind on whether there will be a cabinet reshuffle is tantamount to meddling, Dlamini said.He also accused the ratings agencies of bias against the ANC. They have exposed themselves as people who are not concerned about good governance.They punish countries that do not want to serve their agenda, they want to influence the political outcomes of ANC processes. SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said the country s sovereignty could not be subordinated to international ratings agencies. Our democratic national sovereignty must be respected and as a nation we must protect and defend it. This includes policy and not just people commenting from the US or Europe about the political situation in the country, Mashilo said.He said the country s policy trajectory could not be dictated by international actors in the global political system. What is not going to be acceptable is European or American institutions telling us which economic policy to follow. When that happens it means that our democratic national sovereignty is being violated. If our national democratic sovereignty is being violated, there s no way we will succeed with our cause for transformation and development.It means that other people will tell us what to do. Mashilo also said the ANC s processes of electing its leadership were the preserve of ANC members only. What we know is that the election of ANC leadership is a matter exclusively reserved to ANC members in terms of the ANC constitution, rules of discipline and processes. Nothing goes beyond that. ANC NEC member and Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba also entered the fray yesterday.While describing Reuss s comments as plain interference in ANC matters, he warned S&amp;P not to undermine the country s sovereignty. The president is empowered by the Constitution to make whatever decisions he may wish to make about his cabinet. He is ultimately accountable both in the Constitution and in Parliament for the cabinet to be appointed, Gigaba said. Therefore S&amp;P and any other ratings agency has absolutely no right to interfere in that business. The ANCWL said in a statement on Saturday that it had read with utter dismay the remarks made by Reuss. The utterances by Reuss are a clear indication that S&amp;P is not an apolitical institution and has interests on who has to be a cabinet member. S&amp;P as an institution undermines the constitutional right of the state president to appoint his cabinet and make changes when he deems necessary, the ANCWL said. Furthermore, Reuss said when going to ANC leadership elections later in the year, it has to do the right thing. Since its inception in 1912, the ANC has been doing the right thing, in particular when electing its leaders. The leadership of the ANC is elected by branch delegates in a duly constituted conference, not by S&amp;P. The ANCWL called on S&amp;P to clarify if the comments by Reuss were his personal views or the company s views.Wits University economist Prof Chris Malekane said it was part of a ratings agency job to look at political risk. Agencies look both at economic and political risk. Any issue relating to cabinet reshuffles or infighting is part of an agency s risk assessment. They assess political risk to help form their opinions, Malekane said.Two weeks ago, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe warned that rating agencies are no angels and have a particular ideological outlook . That s why we always emphasise that when we deal with rating agencies we must always ensure that we are not working for rating agencies. We do what is right for South Africa and rating agencies must rate us on our work, Mantashe said.ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte was more direct. The political slanting of rating agencies is not compatible with examining whether or not a country can repay its loans, Duarte said.