Every now and again, a woman feels sexier, saucier and up for some bedroom action and there is no prize for guessing when exactly ladies are likely to lay it down.Sex experts have confirmed it too a woman s sex drive shoots up during ovulation at mid menstrual cycle, 14 days before they get their next period. The emotional and physical attributes that are associated with that time of the month are not only limited to menstrual cramps, irritability and mood swings; there is also a strong urge to have sex.Over the years, experts have provided scientific reasons for this compulsive sexual behaviour, which has baffled several women, including one blogger by the name of Menses Maiden, who wanted to establish via the award-winning sex education forum goaskalice. com whether she was normal for feeling hornier than usual during her menses?While it s important to understand that women of reproductive age report fluctuations in their sex drive throughout their menstrual cycle, goaskalice.com, a community of health professionals from Columbia University s health services department, said that this topic has resulted in conflicting information, making it difficult to reach definitive conclusions. The most well-known biological theory is that women feel their sex drive kick in during ovulation at mid-cycle, Alice said. The surge in oestrogen and the added testosterone bonus that accompany ovulation explain why some women experience heightened libido during this time. This change makes logical sense when viewed within the context of evolution. Ovulation is the most fertile phase for women and increased interest in and responsiveness to sex during this time ensures greater probability of conception and procreation than at other times of the cycle. While a handful of previous studies looking at changing hormonal levels and sexual desire during a period cycle have largely proved inconclusive, a recent study published in the journal Hormones and Behaviour found more concrete evidence of a correlation between the two.Researchers at the University of California in Santa Barbara recruited 43 women in the study, which tracked their menstrual cycles and collected daily saliva samples. The women were asked a number of behavioural questions about whether they had masturbated, had sex and, if so, who had initiated sex and how often they desired sexual contact. We found two hormonal signals that had opposite effects on sexual motivation, James Roney, a professor in the department of psychological and brain sciences, said. Oestrogen was having a positive effect but with a two-day lag. Progesterone was having a persistent negative effect, both for current days, a day before and two days earlier. When hormone levels and sexual desire were factored against the menstrual cycles of the respondents, the researchers saw a measurable increase in progesterone levels at the same time the subjects noted decreases in sexual motivation.Progesterone, the researchers say, is mediating this drop in desire from the fertile window to the luteal phase the second half of the menstrual cycle.TNA REPORTER| news@thenewage.co.za &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;