Municipalities in the Northern Cape breathed easier over the weekend after Public Enterprises Minister, Lynne Brown, has come to the rescue of indebted municipalities, instructing Eskom to afford them time until the end of this month to clear their outstanding arrears before switching off the lights. Turning off the power supply does not only impact on individual ratepayers and municipalities, it has potentially disastrous effects on businesses and therefore jobs, Brown said in a statement. One cannot help feeling sympathetic to those who pay their electricity bills in good faith, only for the payments to be consumed by municipalities with precious little income and resources. This is a matter of national importance that I would urgently hope to discuss with the minister of finance. Eskom is on a national drive to recoup R10.2bn owed by municipalities, which has increased in the past eight months from R6bn.This prompted the power supplier to cut off electricity to defaulting municipalities for more than four hours a day after they failed to make a payment arrangement following the North Gauteng High Court s ruling that Eskom had a statutory and regulatory right to disrupt power supply in the event of non-payment by a customer.Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe, said they were temporarily halting the interrupted power supply after reaching an agreement with the Department of Public Enterprises and the South African Local Government Association. We are going to comply with the minister s request. From Friday, we are not going to continue to interrupt the power supply until the end of the month, Phasiwe said.In the last five years, the overdue debt by municipalities in Northern Cape, North West, Free State and Mpumalanga had increased tenfold, with the March 2017 forecast being in excess of R12bn.On Thursday, Brown urged municipalities in arrears to move with haste to clear their debts, saying that the security of future revenue was paramount to Eskom s sustainability. In the meantime, the amount of R10.2bn, which grows exponentially, has a potential to undermine the sterling effort undertaken to restore Eskom back to its sound financial footing. It is critical for all municipalities to institute prepaid billing to help build a payment culture, Brown said. A healthy Eskom does not only meet its social mandate through electrification and other transformational targets, it also contributes to the positive sovereign rating of South Africa. Brown said South Africa could not afford an Eskom whose ability to borrow from financial markets is constrained by the prohibitive interest rates arising from the negative financial position, which will result if we don t resolve this matter . SABC