REGISTRATIONS at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) are going smoothly with more than 5000 first-year and returning students having registered since online registration began last week. A press statement released by the university on its website said by Tuesday this week, 5 499 students had registered on the system for this year, which is nearly 8% higher than the 5 112 at the same time last year. Online registration for senior students began last Monday, with assisted first-year registration having started this week and running smoothly to date, the institution said. The faculty of business and economic sciences has the most number of registrations at 1 929 students followed by engineering, built environment and IT with 850. The arts faculty has 778 registered students, while science and health sciences have 630 and 561 respectively. The education faculty has 509 registered students so far up by 85% from last year s 274 with those studying law at 242. The institution said assisted registration for first-year students ended on Wednesday, but those who missed the opportunity could still register with returning students until February 3. All students are encouraged to register before lectures begin on February 6 to obtain lecture timetables to enable them to start attending lectures as soon as they start. The university is aware that some students are not yet able to register as those who have applied for National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) are still awaiting the outcome of their applications, the NMMU said. More than 3000 returning students whose NSFAS application status was finalised were added onto the system yesterday and can proceed with registration. This week NSFAS said it had paid R1.3bn to 26 public universities, a figure set aside to advance payment of registration fees for students from disadvantaged backgrounds, so that they can be admitted for their studies. It said 160 000 students had been approved for funding and it was confident that there would not be any student turned away. Spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said: All returning students who were funded last year, should not panic as they will automatically be funded this year without having to apply for financial aid, provided they have signed the agreement form for financial assistance and they have passed at least 50% of their enrolled modules. He said applications for funding for students were now officially closed and there would be no extension while TVET college students still have until February 14 to submit their applications. LONDEKA DLAMINI