Atleast 100000 people are living in hijacked buildings in the inner city of Johannesburg and the slum lords running the scam have turned them into a multimillion-rand businesses.The city of Johannesburg has said 36 cases of buildings being hijacked have been reported recently.It said the Hawks were investigating 11 alleged property hijackings for the period of 2014/2015.However, an investigation conducted by the city in 2015 estimated that 400 buildings in the inner city had been hijacked.A middle-aged man, who lives in one of the hijacked buildings, said a well-known syndicate approaches tenants and announces they are the new owners, offering the tenants lower rentals. We knew the owner of our building was a white man, but one day, some men came and told us the building was now under their ownership and cut down on our rentals. People were happy they would pay reduced rentals. The white owner has never come since then, and we think it s because he is afraid of these dangerous men, he said.Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said the previous administration failed to keep updated data on this important information.Mashaba has since instructed that a fresh assessment of the current number of hijacked buildings in the city be done. During this investigation process, one of our biggest challenges is confirming who owns these buildings and then attempting to make contact with these individuals, Mashaba said.He said he wanted the buildings reclaimed and redeveloped into quality low-cost housing for residents. It is essential that we bring back the rule of law in our city and take it back from criminal elements such as illegal landlords, who take advantage of desperate people and house them under deplorable conditions in hijacked buildings. There is no dignity for these people and we have to be bold and decisive in finding a solution to this challenge, Mashaba said.Pretending to be looking for a place to rent, The New Age team visited a block of hijacked flats situated at the corner of York and Doris streets in Berea, Johannesburg.Ntuthuko Mdlalose (not her real name) welcomed the two journalists posing as possible tenants. Mdlalose indicated she was looking for more tenants to share the tiny flat she calls home, saying it could accommodate three to four families at once. I m currently looking for two tenants who can occupy the dining room and the open space near the kitchen, she said.Tenants pay R1400 including electricity for a space that barely fits a bed.Mdlalose receives the money before a man named Steve collects it from her on the seventh day of each month.Several other buildings in the Johannesburg CBD area, including Fattis Mansions, are hijacked.A shop owner in the area described the occupants of these hijacked buildings as a nuisance. She said her business has been badly affected because thugs terrorise her customers by stealing their food and belongings. We can t sleep or move around freely. We fear them, whenever I have to go to the bathroom I am required to lock the shop because the people steal. They behave like animals, they rob innocent people. They take women s handbags then run into the dark buildings, she said.The city of Johannesburg may have declared war on corruption and fraud, but property experts warn that the laws currently in place make it easy for hijackers to get away with not paying rates and taxes.An estate agent who works in the area, Trymore Mushuma, said most of the buildings were dangerous and are no-go areas even for the police. The government will continue to lose until they change the constitution that states that before a property owner evicts invaders, they first have to open a case with the police, then go to court. The process can take longer than a year and one has to have money, Mushuma said. He said in some cases the slum lords were people who have lived in an area for a long time and know the owners of the buildings.Johannesburg MMC for economic development Sharon Peetz said a building could not be reclaimed by the city until the actual owner is found and agrees to either sell or give the building to the city.She said that before evictions can legally take place, the city needs to ensure that they can re-house the evicted tenants.Johannesburg Central police spokesperson Capt Xoli Mbele denied allegations that police were conniving with hijackers or are afraid to enter the buildings. Of course two officers alone cannot go inside the building because they would be putting their lives in danger without knowing how many people are in there. Instead, they call for back-up. We regularly do joint operations to raid the buildings, Mbele said.He said some who commited crimes like robbery used the abandoned buildings as hiding spots.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za