It has been more than two months since versatile singer Candy Mokwena made her musical comeback with her recent album, Easy Come Easy Go.This album, released in November, sees the Limpopo-born lady of song, deviate from her recent dance influences to a more mature sound powered by Afro-soul.Speaking to The New Age in between her rehearsal schedule Mokwena who also goes by the moniker, Candy Tsamandebele says Afro-soul has always been her sound, adding that after joining Kalawa Records, an opportunity to collaborate with house music maestro Oskido resulted in the hit song Tsamandebele which brought her instant fame and new fans in 2013. My first album Siki Five Cents was an Afro-soul album. I have gone back to what I love singing about daily experiences and my journey which began in 1993. Afro soul rather than dance allows me to inspire other people and share my stories of growing up poor, the Kalawa Jazzmee affiliated singer said.Much like her 2009 release, Siki Five Cents, Easy Come Easy Go, which boasts 10 Afro-soul songs and just one dance-inspired song, produced by her long time collaborator, Trevor Mabunda. In the house track, the proud mother of a 27-year-old son enlisted the services of veteran house DJ and producer, DJ Ganyani. I might not have been nominated for Metro FM Award or even get a Sama nomination with this album, but this brand of music is my passion. People have responded well to the stories that I share in the album. The album has been making steady progress as far as sales are concerned and that is comforting. Mokwena says she is still very much part of Kalawa even with what people perceive as a change in direction. I am 199% part of Kalawa even with this album. All these years I had been waiting for a record company that understands my musical journey. Kalawa has been that company for me. People should give me and the album a chance. They should take time to listen to the message before making up their minds. It is not easy in South Africa for people to move from one genre of music to another. However, this is an opportunity for people to see another side to Candy, she said.Mokwena is preparing to shoot a music video to the album s title song. As if that is not enough, the former Shakabundu Girls band member is looking forward to a fruitful 2017 ahead of the release of her yet to be titled biography later in the year. I am involved in a number of initiatives under my own foundation, Candy Tsamandebele Foundation. We engage with youth through motivational talks. I am planning a live DVD of the album which will come out later this year. In a career spanning more than two decades, Mokwena has worked with the likes of PaPa Penny, Ringo, Oskido, Kabelo Mabalane, DJ Vetkuk, Mahoota and Stoan Seate among others. In 2014, Candy was recognised for putting Khelubedu (Northern Sotho) on the entertainment map by the organisers of the Imbokodo Awards. Growing up was never easy. I want to inspire young people to never give up on their dreams. This is why I am involved with youth through my foundation and many other initiatives such as donating school uniforms. Candy is excited about another project that she is working on, a television show that will profile other artists with GauTV. This TV show will allow me to interact and get to know other artists. It is really going to be a good year for me. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE