The city of Cape Town has recently urged residents and visitors to steer clear of the toxic blue-green algae in the Wildevo lvlei in Noordhoek Valley. The appeal comes after the city noted an increase in the algal population which normally occurs in summer months.According to the city, recent monitoring and laboratory tests undertaken have confirmed that the water contains blue-green algal toxins. It is reported that Wildevo lvlei has a well-established algal population, dominated by species of blue-green algae (cyanophyceae). This algal group has the ability, under certain conditions, to produce toxins which can be harmful to humans and animals if ingested.City spokesperson Priya Reddy said: The public should avoid all contact with the water at the vlei and in the outlet channel leading to the sea and discharging on a section of Noordhoek Beach. Dog-walkers should ensure that their pets remain on their leashes and prevent them from drinking the water, she said. Reddy said that the harvesting and sale and consumption of shellfish from the rocky outcrops near the outlet to the sea (Klein Slangkop on Noordhoek Beach) was not advised as shellfish such as mussels harvested from this area were likely unfit for human consumption. The algal blooms usually present as green, blue-green, white or brown foam, scum or mats floating on the surface of the water. Exposure to these algae can cause eye irritation, skin rashes, mouth ulcers, vomiting, diarrhoea and cold or flu-like symptoms. Drinking or swallowing large amounts of contaminated water can be extremely dangerous, she said. It is advised that if any person comes into direct contact with the blue-green algae, they should wash themselves immediately with clean water and should any symptoms present, they should immediately seek medical attention.The city s environmental health officers are monitoring the area and erecting additional signage at various locations to warn the public of the prevalence of the toxic algae. The city will continue to monitor the quality of water carefully and will keep the public informed of any new developments, Reddy said. The city will remove the warning signs on the beaches once the vlei is clear of all potential health risks, she said. More had be had from the city s Lakeside environmental health office on 021 444 1653.-Nadine Ford-Kritzinger| nadinef@thenewage.co.za