The family of a man who died after his Ford Kuga SUV caught fire has slammed the multinational company s insensitive handling of the issue.Ford Kuga s 1.6l vehicle owner Reshall Jimmy, 33, died when his car burst into flames between George and Knysna on December 4, 2015. The treatment we ve received from Ford is disgusting and heartbreaking. They have made our loss so much more difficult to deal with. Someone burnt to death and they are taking no responsibility. We ve had to put up such a fight, the victim s sister Renisha Jimmy said.The family s attorney Rod Montano said in Pretoria yesterday that the family would be pursuing a civil claim against Ford South Africa over Reshall s death. I have been instructed to act on the other families behalf in bringing a class action against Ford. The administrative challenge is that the victims are spread out throughout the country and we need to make all the necessary attempts to contact them, have proper consultation with them and draft the legal documentation, Montano said.Montano said that 31 complaints from affected owners of 1.6l vehicles had been lodged with the National Consumer Commission (NCC) on Monday.The NCC said it was still verifying the number of complaints it had received relating to Ford Kuga s catching fire.Renisha said that their goal was to ensure that no other family experiences similar trauma as a result of a faulty vehicle. We hope that they repair the cars so that no one else would have to suffer the way my family did. No one should go through what he experienced trapped in a burning car, Renisha said.Jimmy s family said that the fire in the vehicle did not start from the engine as Ford alleged but from the front.Forensic expert David Klatzow who was hired by Jimmy s family said eyewitnesses had confirmed that the fire started in the front of the vehicle, not from the engine as Ford claimed. Their expert report is incorrect and it was done amateurishly. They have been very arrogant. Ford has been coy about releasing its initial report, he said.Sean Thompson from Gauteng will be part of the civil claims and has lodged a complaint with the NCC about his Kuga 2,5l vehicle. I received a call from my tracker telling me that my battery was running low. When I checked the car, the interior was white and smoke was coming out of it. Ford took it for three weeks but decided not to fix it. Ford can t tell me why it burnt. My insurance said it s a Ford workmanship error, he said.On Monday Ford announced a safety recall of all Kuga 1.6ls after more than 40 cars caught fire in recent months. It said the cars should be taken to Ford dealers as soon as possible.More than 4000 Kugas have been affected by the recall.ZODIDI MHLANAzodidim@thenewage.co.za