Thuli Madonsela declared she was not interested in becoming South Africa s next president.The former public protector was speaking in Cape Town where she launched the Press Club s Alternative State of the Nation series of talks.Addressing a packed venue at Kelvin Grove, Newlands, Madonsela talked about her seven-year term as public protector, President Jacob Zuma, her investigation into allegations made against Absa bank and her ambitions.Asked if she wanted to be president, she said: I m neither qualified to be president nor interested in that job. However, she said, South Africa was struggling to rebuild itself and was trying to find its way back to the lodestar that had inspired leaders such as Pixlie ka Isaka Seme, Oliver Tambo and Nelson Mandela. South Africa does deserve to have a good president. Whoever became president after President Zuma would have to build a united South Africa and not only a country for blacks or whites. It was terrible to be a Cinderella in apartheid South Africa and it would be terrible to create a country where whites would feel like Cinderella, she said.On whether the president after Jacob Zuma should be a woman, she said: I would love it to be a female but I would hate having a female that s a proxy because that would be worse than having a man. She said hopefully the next South African president should be someone similar to Tambo who held the ANC together in exile. He walked the talk, Madonsela said.Of her investigation into Absa, Madonsela was asked if there was any difference in her report and the one quoted in the news media.She said: I do have a view on that but I choose not to comment whether that report is the same or whether the conclusions or remedial actions are mine. On the leaking of the report, Madonsela said reports were always leaked for nefarious reasons. We had promised Absa and the Reserve Bank to share the report with them. How it ended up with other parties and how people claim to have an electronic report I do not understand. Of her state capture Report, Madonsela said it needed an open and transparent process. Allegations made by individuals, such as Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas, had created suspicion among Cabinet members.They had exacerbated the public s trust deficit. The only way the air can be cleared is through a commission of inquiry chaired by a judge, she said.Of the reasons for her recommendation that Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng and not the president, should name a judge to head a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate state capture, Madonsela said she did it because she did not want to allow President Zuma to be a judge in his own case. The president is implicated. It would be in the interest of the president for him not to directly choose the person. According to Madonsela it could well be that Jonas, or former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor, who had given her version of a meeting that took place at the Gupta family s Saxonwold home, or even the former head of Government Communications and Information Systems, Themba Maseko, were not telling the truth when they made allegations against Zuma and the Gupta family.The matter needed to be scrutinised and be put to rest. If these people were lying there needs to be consequences, she said, adding no family should be left alone controlling power and state resources.She spoke of interviewing Zuma. At that meeting we told the president we were recording the interview for his own protection and our protection. We even said if they wanted a copy of that audio or transcript it would be given to them. He had undertaken to provide answers, Madonsela said.However, this didn t happen and she was told her office was being taken to court. I told the team that the record had to be released. When I was public protector I was the only one who had the power to release those records. She heard that her successor, Busisiwe Mkhwebane had laid charges against her for releasing the audio part of the conversation with President Zuma. It can t be a crime for any of the evidence to go public, Madonsela said.She made a strong plea for promoting social justice, stressing that collectively South Africans could play a role in ending poverty and promoting social justice starting with Fees Must Fall.Asked about her own strength, she said it came from her spirituality, from people who trusted her office, from whistleblowers and people such as the Gogo Dlaminis who even if they are ordinary people believe in this country .DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za