The African National Congress(ANC) in Ethekwini Region on Wednesday lambasted its Youth League wing for calling for the removal of Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.The ANCYL in KZN accused Gordhan of failing to be a referee in the South African Airways (SAA) squabbles saying he has become a player and wanted to mussel the board. The League said this in a media conference last week.They also accused Gordhan of failing to transform State Owned Enterprises (SOE s), particularly SAA. Gordhan has failed to transform SOE&#8217;s especially SAA. We believe Gordhan must go, and he must go immediately, because SAA is a typical example of why he should go, eThekwini regional secretary Thinta Cibane said last week.However, in a sudden change of events, the Ethekwini youth league secretary sung a different tune on Tuesday apologising to Minister Gordhan unconditionally. It is reported that the youth league&#8217;s sudden change of stance follows the long engagement with its mother body in the province regarding the matter. After the engagements with the ANC, we have come to differently appreciate the leadership of the ANC in determining the future of the ministers and all other deployees. We accordingly respect the opportunity given to us to be engaged by the ANC on the matter of comrade Pravin Gordhan and, therefore, regret comments made in this regard, Cibane said in a statement.Meanwhile, late last year Pressure group Transform SA was also demanding an overhaul of SAA s procurement policies, saying they were an embarrassment and demeaning to black businesses .It came to light that only 2% of SAA s budget is spent on black-owned businesses.In an interview with the New Age, secretary-general of Namec Adil Ntchabeleng said Transform SA demands that a resolution be adopted by the newly-appointed board of directors at SAA to immediately take measures to increase the share procurement spend with black owned and managed entities in SAA s R24bn procurement budget, from the 2% to a meaningful 60% within a period not later than March 31, 2018. We have done our research and realised there is a critical crisis of transformation at SAA. It s time that procurement from competent black businesses must be a priority, Nchabeleng said.Earlier this month ANC Women s League also called for a Commission of Inquiry or Parliament Inquiry to investigate various disturbing allegations of corruption and anti-transformation at SAA.This comes after alarming reports came to surface that it is facing internal and external forces that are doing all within their powers to fight any attempts to transform SAA particularly on procurement and employment equity. This is done consciously to continue with only white owned suppliers being major beneficiaries of tenders at SAA. It is also a plan to ensure that only male occupies senior positions at SAA, said ANCWL in a statement.&#8211;Sipho JACK Additional reporting Samuel Mungadze