Protection from gangs, money and status are some of the perceived benefits that entice children to join gangs despite facing risks of being assaulted, killed or jailed, police expert Eldred de Klerk said.De Klerk was commenting on the growing number of children who were involved in gang-related activities in Durban locations, particularly Wentworth where gang-related violence was on the increase.Five people between the ages of 16 and 24 were killed in alleged gang violence in a short space of time late last year, Wentworth CPF chairperson pastor Donavon Anderson said. He said that the gangs were battling for turf to sell drugs. Every month there is a killing. Just recently there were two killings in two weeks, Anderson said. A guy was shot in a car with his girlfriend. A week later another guy was shot driving with a three year old. He was being followed by another car and when he stopped he got shot, Anderson said.According to De Klerk, children from broken families join gangs because they are looking for a family. We have a situation where we have broken families, often an absent father but also absent caregivers. You don t have the whole extended family network. Even the people who stay in the same house may be under stress, De Klerk said. So the typical response you get from people on why they join gangs is that it gives them a sense of family. He said the children in gangs wouold do anything they are ordered to just to prove their loyalty and move up the ranks. They have people who will watch their backs and who will even kill for them. There is money, affection and you can start getting commodity goods, De Klerk said. There is the emotional side of it and the psychological side of it where a sense of adventure gets fed, they get some personal satisfaction for being lauded for their courage.Local ward councillor Aubrey Snyman said they had just recently managed to tone down the viciousness in the area by getting the gangs involved in the violence to commit to a peace deal. They signed a peace pledge on the December 23. It went very well. All the various communities and gangs signed, he said.Snyman said the community members were excited that the gangs had agreed on a truce as they were tired of living in fear. They were so taken and excited by the coming together of the gangs, he said. Before, the community was tense. It put them in a place of being constantly traumatised. He said the community hoped the gangs would be able to sustain the peace into the future.provinces@thenewage.co.za