The Black Business Council (BBC) has reiterated its position that control over the criminal justice system could not be transferred to banks.The BBC will present this position to the standing committee on finance in Parliament when holds hearings into the Financial Intelligence Centre Bill today.Last year President Jacob Zuma sent the bill back to Parliament.This was after the BBC, Progressive Professionals Forum and Transform South Africa had objected to it.At the time the Presidency said Zuma had referred the Fica Bill back to the National Assembly because he was concerned about its constitutionality.One of Zuma s main concerns was the provisions relating to warrantless searches.The Presidency s Bongani Ngqulunga said: Keeping that part is problematic because it might interfere with the constitutional right to privacy. The standing committee, which is formed by delegates from the National Assembly and National Council of Provinces, resolved to hold public hearings this month.Confirming that the BBC would be making a presentation today, technical advisor Tshepo Kgadima said: The bill transforms the criminal justice system to banks. They are going to try to convict and sentence people by closing your accounts without any due process. That s really our chief grievance. Money laundering and terrorism are crimes and they must be investigated by the South African Police Service, the organisation constitutionally mandated to fight crime. We are a rule of law-based country. We find it completely unacceptable that the criminal justice system can be transferred to banks. Kgadima said legislators must pass laws that were in line with the Constitution. What we are offended by is that the purpose and contents of the bill do not match. When the standing committee said it would hold public hearings this month, it declared it would only entertain Zuma s concerns about searches without warrants being legalised.Kgadima said: Our view is a very simple one, of course the BBC supports any legislation that counters money laundering and finances terrorism. We say that more than 15 provisions of the Constitution will be violated. We will raise this. Dennis Cruywagennews@thenewage.co.za