The Mpumalanga department of health has appealed to parents to educate their children about the danger of swimming in dirty and dangerous rivers.This comes after a number of community members complained about young children swimming naked in some of the province s dangerous rivers, particularly around areas like Bushbuckridge and Nkomazi. We are appealing to parents, traditional leaders and residents to ensure that they stop children from swimming in filthy rivers because it places their lives in danger. These children run a risk of contracting serious diseases such as bilharzia, malaria and other deadly illnesses associated with dirty water, said Mandla Zwane, acting director for communicable diseases and control.He said it was a known fact that some streams and rivers pose a serious health hazard for those who swim there, as they contain bilharzia and other diseases.Zwane said if parents suspect that their children might have been infected by a waterborne disease, they must take them to the clinic or to the doctor immediately in order to be checked and treated, since many can be deadly.Bilharzia symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhoea, blood in the stool, or blood in the urine. The disease may not immediately present symptoms, but the bilharzia parasite damages internal organs regardless of whether the sufferer experiences them.Cholera can also be contracted by swimming in contaminated water, particularly if water is swallowed. Symptoms include vomiting and diarrhoea, and the subsequent dehydration can easily lead to death, especially in children and babies.There is also the danger of dangerous animals such as crocodiles or hippopotamuses in the rivers. Additionally, unsupervised children run the risk of drowning. They may not know how deep the river is or may underestimate the strength of the current and get swept away.Amanda Mathebula from Marite, Bushbuckridge, said she was alarmed when she saw children swimming in one of the dangerous rivers known as Magabelani. I have seen some children swimming here on several occasions, especially when it is hot. At first I used to chase them away, but they kept on coming back to the river, I finally decided to leave them to do whatever they want to do in the river. A few years ago some people were attacked by crocodiles at some of the rivers situated next to Hazyview, said Mthebula. In 2011, an 11-year-old girl drowned in one of the rivers in Hazyview. According to police, the girl and her friends left school and went straight to the river to swim. Her body washed up on the river bank four days later.Another resident, Vusi Matsane, also confirmed that many children were swimming in different dangerous rivers in Bushbuckridge. This is a problem faced by many communities. Since the summer season started, I have seen many children swimming in dangerous rivers. As far as I know, the parents are aware of this situation and they don t do anything about it. We really have to do something about this situation, said Matsane.When contacted for comment, a number of parents in the area whose houses are situated next to rivers claimed that they were not aware that their children were swimming in the river. Yes, I did see some children swimming and some standing on the bank of the river.However, my children were not among them, said a parent.In Belfast in the Bushbuckridge local municipality, eight people were reportedly attacked by crocodiles while they were fetching water from the crocodileinfested Sabie River.Recently, 10-year-old Kopano Molefe from KwaThema, Ekurhuleni died while swimming with friends in a dam situated next to the N17.news@thenewage.co.za