The announcement of a steep rise in fuel prices on Wednesday took analysts by surprise, given the strength of the rand and the more or less constant price of crude oil since the last week of December.And black South Africans will suffer the most as they still earn far less than their white counterpart. It is a fact too that poor workers spend up to 50% of their earnings on transport. Annual household income for blacks stood at an average of R92 893, compared with R444 446 for whites.Black Africans account for more than 80% of the 55 million population and whites a little more than 8%, according to Stats SA figures released on Friday. The petrol price increased by 51c/l at the beginning of January 2017 on the back of the weak rand in the first three weeks of December 2016, but the last week of the same month the currency recovered as it strengthened against the US dollar from R14/$ to R13.60/$.Motorists may well feel that the price increase for February of 29c/l for all grades is steep. The big question is whether there have been some discrepancies in the Central Energy Fund s and the Department of Energy s calculations because the rand and the oil price are key factors when determining retail fuel prices.Consumers are also likely to be hit with a bigger fuel tax in the Budget announcement on February 22. Without the levy, the total increase in the petrol price is 90c/l for January and February. Both 93 and 95 octane petrol will go up by 29c/l, diesel by 21c/l all grades, and paraffin by 17c/l. Overall, motorists will now pay R13.62/l for 95 octane and R13.38/l for 93 octane in the commercial hub of Gauteng.More pain for consumers is the fact that last week the Reserve Bank MPC statement also referred to expected tax increases in the forthcoming Budget which may dampen consumption expenditure. Hard times for consumers are still ahead. With a troubled economy and a small tax base, there remains an acute challenge in the 2017-18 Budget on how to best balance the state s books without damaging growth and employment. All of this will have a negative impact to consumers, Raymond Parsons, professor at NWU school of business and governance said. In addition, the more the petrol price rises, the more the transport costs escalate for majority of black South Africans who rely on public transport to go to work.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za