It is a widely held view in South Africa that our nation s corruption problem is the fault of black leaders misusing their positions of power. It s an untrue narrative that is now firmly rooted in the national discourse leading to conversations at dinner tables starting off with since these darkies took over&#8230; .The public protector s interim report leaked last week on the apartheid-era bailout of Bankorp shows that corruption is not confined to any particular race group.The public protector s line of inquiry is that Absa, which bought Bankorp after it had been given a lifeline by the Reserve Bank in 1992, had failed to pay interest on the loan. It left the fiscus possibly R2.25bn out of pocket.If proven true, it s the case of a major bank trying to get away with not paying what s due.Since the end of apartheid, the ANC has been our nation s dominant political and ruling party. In this same time, activists campaigning against the ANC have accused the party s apparatchiks of stealing billions over 22 years and siphoning the cash into private interests.As part of their accusations, the ANC s critics have created the term state capture to describe a situation in which ordinary South Africans are suffering because their resources are being directed elsewhere by our black leaders, acting in their own self-interest.While I don t deny that corruption of this kind has and is occurring, I do not believe that this is the whole extent of our problem, or a fully representative explanation of what is actually happening.Unfortunately, corruption in South Africa knows no colour and is being perpetuated by those in positions of power in every sector, across the racial divide. The reality is that there are corrupt politicians, administrators, bosses and businesspeople of all colours operating in our nation.It is not that there are no black leaders who are corrupt; it is that there are numerous white leaders who are corrupt in equal measure and who are being overlooked as long as the myth of black corruption remains unchallenged.No matter how widespread, the belief in solely black corruption is overwhelmingly unsupported by fact. According to the UN Development Programme, corruption occurs in every nation. Capital lost globally each year as a result of corruption is estimated to be about 10 times the amount of official development assistance in developing countries. The UNDP also estimates that $1 trillion (R13 trillion) is paid in bribes a year, while political and business leaders steal an annual sum of $2.6bn a sum equivalent to more than 5% of the global GDP.Clearly, multiracial corruption is not a phenomenon unique to South Africa. While the spotlight is often only cast on President Jacob Zuma and his associates, the white-dominated private sector has been able to act with impunity. For example, Oxfam reported that in 2012 alone our nation s most wealthy private sector companies moved more than $29bn offshore to avoid paying taxes.It goes further than tax dodging just look at the significant collusion committed by our five largest construction companies that was exposed after the 2010 World Cup. The Labour Research Service first highlighted the suspicious, exponential increase in profits seen by the companies in 2007 (when they began working on their World Cup contracts) and yet suggestions of wrongdoing were dismissed by our business leaders and journalists.The idea that businesses of this calibre were corrupt seemed farfetched, until the Competition Commission formally exposed their practices.South Africa s inability to recognise white corruption contributed to the problem when we chose to overlook the $3bn siphoned out of the country by De Beers price fixing of rough diamonds between 2002 and 2015. It took a formal report by the Leverhulme Centre for the Study of Value to recognise the extent of the problem.There are hundreds more examples of corruption committed by all races in South Africa. As long as the perception of black corruption is allowed to remain, some quarters within South Africa s white population may continue to feel justified in their racist beliefs. And in turn, feelings of animosity and defensiveness are created among the black population, giving grotesque ideas like those of Julius Malema support that they do not deserve.This is why our politics, our economy and the lives of ordinary South Africans are suffering: not because of our corrupt black leaders, but because of everybody s corruption.Highlighting just one aspect of a much larger problem is perpetuating a racially divided society in which nobody is able to thrive. It is a political and economic climate that is giving rise to the societal and racial tensions that we fought so hard to overcome.The only way to grow our economy and stabilise our political climate is to insist upon a no tolerance policy toward all kinds of corruption. This means greater transparency and accountability for white and black leaders alike and a renewed emphasis on creating the social cohesion that our country so desperately needs to flourish. Regardless of colour, corruption is a plague to South Africa. A developing society such as ours will never make progress without stopping the looting which costs the country billions each year. But let s change the narrative which perpetuates the false notion that corruption is confined to one race group.Moegsien Williams is the editor-in-chief of The New Age