The South African Football Players Union (Sapfu) has written to Golden Arrows and the Premier Soccer League asking clarity on allegations that Clifton Miheso was forced to sign the termination of his contract at gunpoint.The Kenyan international winger, who is back in his home country, alleges that he was forced to take refuge at a South African police station in Durban after two men coerced him into signing the termination last week.Speaking to the Citizen Digital website in Kenya, Miheso said he had been called into a meeting by Arrows CEO Gordon Masondo in the club s offices at Moses Mabhida Stadium. In the meeting he asked me to sign the termination of my contract.When I refused, arguing that I needed to consult my agent first, he stormed out of the office. Minutes later, two men forced me to sign at gunpoint. They demanded the copy of my contract but I fled to the police station. The player added that police in Durban called Arrows boss Mato Madlala to resolve the matter, but no charges were pressed against Masondo or the alleged assailants. She agreed to pay my signing on fee plus two months salary and effectively terminated the contract. The 23 year old said he fled to Johannesburg and made contact with Sapfu before going back to Kenya. Now the players union says it has engaged with the player and his agent to get to the bottom of the matter. Last week we were asked by the player and his agent to write to Arrows and the PSL seeking clarity. The player confirmed to us that a gun was pointed at him before signing. If we don t get a response before the end of this week, we will take the matter to Fifa, the union said. No player deserves to be treated like it has been reported. As a result of the trauma the player was subjected to, he is scared to return to South Africa to continue with his football career. At the moment he is in Kenya. Miheso joined the Lamontville side from AFC Leopards six months ago. In other Arrows news, they have let go of Namibian international defender Chris Katjiukua.In a statement, Arrows denied the allegation associating the team with any knowledge pertaining to a threat on the life of the Kenyan player.Linda Ximba| news@thenewage.co.za