As their smartphone screens lit up with ride requests last month, Uber drivers in the Moroccan city of Casablanca must have thought that business was booming.Instead, they found themselves surrounded by irate local taxi drivers who had posed as would-be passengers.The taxi drivers then forced the Uber drivers from their vehicles and handed them over to the police, the latest in a string of protests in the kingdom against the controversial travel app. After the tramway, illegal drivers and now Uber, they are trying to kill us off, said Abdelouahed, who works for a small local taxi firm.Uber launched in Morocco s economic hub in 2015 but was banned by local authorities after just one month. It has recently found itself the target of increasingly brash protests organised by owners of Casablanca s famous tomato red cabs. When you open Uber on your phone, you see drivers swarming around you like a virus, said Nordine, a local taxi driver. And like a virus, you need radical solutions. Trap them, he said.The management of taxis in Morocco normally falls to local government. The transport ministry has so far kept quiet as to why Uber continues to operate in the streets of Casablanca. Our position hasn t changed, a senior official from Casablanca s local administration said. We see Uber as an unauthorised and illegal company. Local media said recently that as many as 30 separate protests against Uber and similar services had been held, ranging from threats, car chases and even ambushes such as the one in December.Uber Morocco director-general Meryem Belqziz insisted these were isolated incidents. There were no injuries. It was more harassment, she said, admitting that Uber drivers had been shaken by some protests.There are now more than 250 taxis working for Uber in Casablanca, Belqziz said and 15000 unique users have used the app in the last three months.Business has boomed for Uber since it launched in San Francisco in 2011.But the smartphone app has faced stiff resistance from traditional taxi drivers the world over, as well as bans in some places over safety concerns and questions over legal issues, including taxes.Uber says it is not a transport company like taxi firms, and that it simply connects drivers with passengers.While many drivers have been tempted by Uber s model, many more operators of Casablanca s estimated 18000 taxis continue to denounce the app s unfair competition , while passengers still heavily rely instead on local ride startups such as Careem and chauffeur.ma.The recent opening of a new tram line in the city has also siphoned off some of the local drivers traditional clientele. The tram has already eaten up an important part of our market and things are getting worse with Uber, which operates without constraint, Abdelouahed said.Belqziz insists that Uber and local taxis can operate side by side. AFP