WHILE it is 15 years since the Blitzbokke won the Wellington leg of the World Rugby Sevens Series, mercurial player Roscko Speckman is confident South Africa can do it again this year. Speckman was speaking ahead of the New Zealand leg of the competition, where South Africa, who were runners up in Wellington to eventual series winners Fiji last season, will play against Japan, Australia and Fiji in pool B.The matches will take place at the Westpac stadium from Saturday morning. Neil Powell s men will be without the experienced Cecil Afrika and Kyle Brown, who are both out with injuries. Even so, Speckman said everyone in the squad was keen to do their best for the nation. The players are in good spirits. We had a week-long break, but there was a programme to ensure we came back fit. We now have a few things still to fix, but the guys are looking sharp enough. I know that the closer the tournament gets, everyone will be at their best and ready to represent the nation as best as they can. The Blitzbokke started the new season on a good note, beating Fiji in the final of the Dubai Sevens, before losing to England to finish second in Cape Town.Their two appearances in the separate finals see them top the overall standings with 41 points. England are second on 39 points, with Fiji third on 32 points. Scotland and New Zealand are fourth and fifth respectively on 27 points each. The Blitzbokke will pin their hopes on speedster Seabelo Senatla, who will play in Wellington and Sydney before returning to the country to link up with the Stormers for the Super Rugby season.There could also be a Blitzbokke debut for uncapped Junior Springbok Zain Davids, while winger Siviwe Soyizwapi could also make his Westpac bow in the competition. The 24-year-old player from Mthatha, who also represents the Kings outfit, said he cannot wait to get a chance to perform and put into practice what he has learnt from the team s senior players. I am excited as it is my first time at the tournament and I am keen for it to start, Soyizwapi said. I have learned a lot travelling with the guys, but ultimately, you need to play to put that in practice. So this time I am looking forward to doing my part on the field and contributing to the whole team s effort. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane