A rift within the upper echelons of SA Post Office (Sapo) management seemingly contributed to former board chairperson Simo Lushaba calling it quits.The New Age has learned that Lushaba tendered his resignation last December. This follows the resignation of two other board members Bulelewa Soci and Robert Nkuna in October and November respectively.A Sapo insider said Lushaba had a great deal of discomfort about the state-owned enterprise s apparent hardened resistance to transformation, said in relation to Sapo s newly appointed chief financial officer (CFO) Nichola Dewar. The chairperson was against the appointment on the basis that when she was the acting CFO, he thought that she didn t prove herself ready for a role at group level. The chairperson was concerned about the transformation agenda which has taken a back seat since the appointment of the CEO (Mark Barnes) and the CFO, the source said.The revelation comes against the background of Sapo yesterday saying it was edging closer towards registering its financial services unit, Postbank, by July next year.The source said Lushaba and Barnes did not see eye to eye on a number of key Sapo decisions. This was expected, there was a bad relationship between the chairperson of the board and the CEO. One of the reasons is that he did not want the CFO to be appointed. She is too close to the CEO. That was the final straw, the source said.Spokesperson for Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services Siyabonga Cwele, Siya Qoza, said Lushaba resigned for personal reasons. The minister accepted Dr Simo Lushaba s resignation as a board member and chairperson of the SA Post Office in December 2016. Dr Lushaba said he could no longer provide the required time to Sapo and its board because of developments in his personal life that need his attention as reasons for his resignation, Qoza said.He said that Cwele roped in a replacement for Lushaba. The minister appointed Comfort Ngidi as the acting chairperson while the public process to appoint new board members is being finalised. When asked to comment about Lushaba s resignation, Sapo spokesperson Bongani Diako said that the Derpartment of Telecommunications and Postal Services was best placedto deal with the matter. The ministry also handles all matters relating to the resignation and replacement of board members. As a result, the ministry is best placed to provide details on this, he said.Communication Workers Union general secretary Aubrey Tshabalala said that the union was concerned about the racial composition of strategic Sapo positions. We are concerned about the CFO and also the structure of Sapo in terms of equity. It seems like the Post Office is being transformed into the private sector, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za