Minister of Higher Education and Training Blade Nzimande on Thursday emphasised that Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges is an option for school leaving matriculants. Minister Blade Nzimande was speaking at the post school education and training briefing that took place at the GCIS, Tshedimosetso House in Tshwane. The Minister said that government &#8220;want to make technical and vocational education and training (TVET) an apex of the post school education and training system&#8221; he said . According to the Minister there are 207 510 new entrant opportunities provided by TVET colleges. Minister Nzimande stated that the department as well as government wants to prioritise the production of employable young people with high quality occupational and vocational training skills. NSFAS will be funding 205 000 first time entering and continuing eligible students at universities and 200 000 students at TVET colleges in 2017, said Nzimande. He urged those that completed their grade 12 with a minimum of a higher certificate achievement can consider studying at one of the 50 public TVET colleges. Mathematics is a key requirement for entering artisan training as 50% has been set as a condition along with a pass in physical science especially for the engineering courses. Students that want to pursue artisan training but have not achieved the requirements may register with the Generic Trade Preparation Programme a bridge course for artisan training at the national artisan development centre will assist in the placement of these students. TVET colleges also offer occupationally directed programmes that are accredited by seta&#8217;s under the auspices of the Quality Council for Trades and Occupations, added Nzimande. The national development plan further requires that by 2030 at least 30 000 qualified artisans be produced per year, to this end learners must continue to seek and utilise sector education authority (SETAS) or the national skills fund, funded artisan learnerships or apprenticeships opportunities to access artisan training in the various fields of engineering and services areas, explained Minister Nzimande. Minister Nzimande said that there will be three new colleges being opened the Thabazimbi campus at the Waterberg TVET college in Limpopo the Bambanani college in Kwa Zulu natal and the Nkandla campus which are both part of the Mfolozi TVET college. Minister Nzimande also announced that SETA&#8217;s will provide 100 821 learning programme opportunities in the form of 34 469 learnerships and 17 824 bursaries. When the Minister was asked about university applicants and space available for eligible students he said that the figures indicate that there is no crisis, as bachelor achieving learners number 162 374 and diploma passes number 179 619 learners for the 197 400 new entrants provided by 26 public universities. We are not saying that there is no pressure on the system but it&#8217;s not as much as is normally presented , in other words number of applications is not the measure of what the real situation is, insisted Minister Nzimande. All universities will also develop processes to enable academically successful missing middle students and his department has also addressed the issue of historical debt of NSFAS students. Government will pay the fee increase, capped at 8%, for all qualifying registered students with a gross combined family income up to R600 000, pronounced the Minster Nzimande. TNA Reporter 