Former Kaizer Chiefs attacking midfielder Abia Nale is searching for a new club after he asked Maritzburg United to release him from his contract last week.This New Age recently reported that Nale s future was uncertain after the club s management and caretaker coach Fadlu Davids had expressed unhappiness at his work rate and contribution despite his hefty salary.But Nale said his departure from Maritzburg was amicable. The decision to request the club to release me from my contract was taken during the December break, Nale said. I had long enough to think about it. It s sad that I won t be able to work with a quality coach like Roger de Sa. The club said it couldn t stand in the player s way and wished him well in his future endeavours.In Durban, Golden Arrows have parted ways with Colombian striker Mauricio Barrios and signed former Orlando Pirates and Malawi striker Chiukepo Msowoya, attacking midfielder Knox Mutizwa from Bidvest Wits and left-back Brendon Dean from SuperSport United.Barrios failed to live up to expectations as he failed to score a goal in six league matches.In Port Elizabeth, Chippa United have strengthened their technical team by roping in renowned development coach Zipho Dlangalala to assist Dan Malesela.Dlangalala resigned as Orlando Pirates reserve team coach and is reuniting with Malesela, whom he worked with at the development structures at Sundowns years ago. Zipho is a student of the game and has enjoyed success in football at development level, Chippa manager Luthando Zibeko said. We have no doubt that he will form a good partnership with Dan Malesela and take the club to greater heights. In the National First Division, promotion-chasing Royal Eagles are set to sign ex-Free State Stars goalkeeper Johnny Mathole.The 27 year old is a free agent and is already in KZN to finalise his move. He will become the third player to join Kostadin Papic s side as they have signed former Polokwane City duo Jabulani Nene and Carlington Nyadombo as well as ex-Wits attacking midfielder Papy Faty.In Pretoria, almost forgotten Stanton Lewis is hoping to land a contract at University of Pretoria under coach Shaun Bartlett. The former junior international has been out of the game since 2013 after suffering a serious knee injury while playing for Arrows. He is said to have fully recovered and is working hard to impress the Tuks coach, whom he worked with at Arrows.LINDA XIMBAsports@thenewage.co.za