The Khoza s family in Section C, Tweefontein near KwaMhlanga have been spending sleepless nights since last Sunday following the disappearance of their mentally disturbed grandmother, Elizabeth Khoza, 90.The New Age visited the family on Friday evening and relatives and villagers were gathered discussing a way forward about the elderly woman s disappearance after their repeated efforts to locate her were unsuccessful.The elderly woman s daughter Joyce Khoza said her mother left home in the afternoon last week to collect firewood and recycling material from the nearby bushes and she never returned.Khoza said they then started searching for her and later mobilised other villagers to continue with the search but without success.Thereafter, a missing person s file was opened at the Tweefontein police station.She said all what they needed as the family was just to locate the granny or her remains if she had already died so that she could be laid to rest with dignity. As the family, we are indeed devastated concerning the disappearance of our mentally ill parent after she left home to collect recycling materials and firewood almost a week ago. We have already lost hope because our several attempts to look out for her in the neighbouring villages have not succeeded. We are now asking from the Almighty to lead us to the discovery of her corpse in order for us to put her at her last resting place, Khoza said.The older woman s granddaughter Nomsa Khoza said they would not be free until they find her. We have already contacted our nearby and remote relatives about the matter and have joined hands in searching for our grandmother. We will only be relieved if we could be reunited with her, Khoza said.Ward councillor Sipho Masango said they were working together with the family to ensure that the granny was reunited with them. As the local authorities, we are disappointed about the disappearance of the older parent. We have already approached the police to assist us to trace her. We will continue to support the family until we have clear information about the disappearance, Masango said.Tweefontein police commander LtCol Zodwa Mashiyane said they had already started tracing the woman.Mashiyane also appealed to the community at large not to attack the woman accusing her of practising witchcraft if she was found on their premises because of her mental illness. We have opened a missing person s file while we are busy circulating her picture. Those with information about the elderly woman s whereabouts should contact Joyce Khoza on 072 946 7176 or Nomsa Khoza on 076 981 8022. They can also contact the Tweefontein police on 013 947 6000/6002.francen@thenewage.co.za