The Proteas women&#8217;s team will be battling hard to qualify for ICC Women s World Cup in a qualification tournament in Colombo, Sri Lanka from Tuesday 7-21 February 2017.The 14 women team will be involved in an event that will take place in four venues with the teams in the top four of the Super Six Stage joining defending champs Australia, hosts England, New Zealand and West Indies in the ICC Women s World Cup 2017 from 26 June to 23 July in the United Kingdom.The same top four teams will take part in the ICC Women s Championship. Hilton Moreeng said he is happy to report that they have full strength going into the world cup qualifiers. He also said that he has the squad to get the team into the World Cup.Hilton added that he was excited with the group and is confident going into the tournament. I m happy to report that we have a full-strength team going into the World Cup Qualifiers, he said. We have the right balance in the side and a really nice mix of youth and experience. I think that the recent tour to Bangladesh did wonders with the team s confidence especially with our skills preparation on sub-continent conditions. The series really helped us get back into match mode and fine-tuning some of the areas we were not completely satisfied with last year. This team is definitely our best chance at earning a place in the big tournament later this year and we re all really keen to get to Sri Lanka and do what needs to be done, Hilton Moreeng said. The team will gather at the CSA Centre of Excellence for a camp ahead of the tournament from 27 January to 01 February . Momentum Proteas World Cup Qualifiers squad: Dane Van Niekerk (captain, Eastern Province), Trisha Chetty (wicketkeeper, Gauteng), Moseline Daniels (Boland), Mignon Du Preez (Northerns), Yolani Fourie (Gauteng), Lara Goodall (Western Province), Shabnim Ismail (Gauteng), Marizanne Kapp (Eastern Province), Ayabonga Khaka (Border), Lizelle Lee (North West), Matshipi Letsoalo (Northerns), Sune Luus (Northerns), Chloe Tryon (KwaZulu-Natal Coastal) and Laura Wolvaardt (Western Province). Management: Hilton Moreeng (Head Coach), Sedibu Mohlaba (Team Manager). Molebatsi Theletsane (Physiotherapist), Abram Ramoadi (Performance Analyst), Salieg Nackerdien (Assistant Coach), Russell Clarke (Fitness Trainer). Groups:Group A India, Sri Lanka, Ireland, Zimbabwe and Thailand Group B South Africa, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Scotland and Papua New Guinea Warm-up matches: Sunday, 5 February India v South Africa, P.Sara Stadium; Sri Lanka v Pakistan, Mercantile Cricket Association (MCA); Ireland v Bangladesh, Nondescripts Cricket Club (NCC); Zimbabwe v Scotland, Colombo Cricket Club (CCC); Thailand v PNG, Moors Sports Club. Tournament fixtures (first round) Tuesday, 7 February Sri Lanka v India, P.Sara Stadium; Ireland v Zimbabwe, MCA; South Africa v Pakistan, NCC; Zimbabwe v Scotland, CCC Wednesday, 8 February Pakistan v Bangladesh, P.Sara Stadium; Scotland v South Africa, MCA; Sri Lanka v Ireland, NCC; India v Thailand, CCC Friday, 10 February India v Ireland, P.Sara Stadium; Thailand v Zimbabwe, MCA Saturday, 11 February South Africa v Bangladesh, P.Sara Stadium; Scotland v PNG, MCA; Sri Lanka v Zimbabwe, NCC; Ireland v Thailand, CCC Monday, 13 February Zimbabwe v India, P.Sara Stadium; Sri Lanka v Thailand, MCA; South Africa v PNG, NCC; Pakistan v Scotland, CCC Super Six stage (teams to be confirmed after 13 February matches) Wednesday, 15 February Match 21, P.Sara Stadium; Match 22, NCC; Match 23, CCC Friday, 17 February Match 24, P.Sara Stadium; Match 25, NCC; Match 26, CCC Sunday, 19 February Match 27, P.Sara Stadium; Match 28, NCC; Match 29, CCC Tuesday, 21 February &#8211; FINAL About the ICC Women s World Cup 2017 The Women s World Cup 2017 will get underway on 26 June and culminate with the final at Lord s on 23 July . Bristol and Derby will host the two semi-finals, while Leicester and Taunton are the other two venues Australia, England, New Zealand and the West Indies have qualified automatically after finishing in the top four of the ICC Women s Championship The tournament will be played on a single-league format with all the eight sides playing against each other once. The top four sides will progress to the semi-finals A total of 31 matches will be played, including the two semi-finals and the final England has twice staged the ICC Women s World Cup the inaugural edition in 1973 and then in 1993. Both the times, England won the tournament. England s third title was in Sydney, Australia, in 2009 Australia will defend the title it won in India in 2013. Australia has also won in 1978, 1982, 1988, 1997 and 2005. New Zealand is the other side to win the event when it lifted the most prestigious trophy in women s cricket in its backyard in 2000 This will be the third time the event will be organised by the ICC since its merger with the International Women s Cricket Council in 2005. -Reuters