The group of ANC stalwarts and veterans who signed the For the Sake of our Future document, said yesterday that their preparations for a two-day meeting with the ANC s policy unit next week were well underway.Spokesperson for the group Wally Serote said a committee, headed by Aziz Pahad, had been set up to present the veterans views on their decision to reject an ANC proposal that a national consultative conference be held two days before the party s policy conference later this year.He said that the talks would be held from January 12 at the ANC s Luthuli House headquarters in Johannesburg. The committee prepared documents on how we see the national consultative conference unfolding. That group will interface soon with the ANC on the discussions. Serote s comments come against the background of the veterans rejecting an ANC proposal that it s national consultative conference be incorporated into the party s policy conference. The stalwarts insisted that a consultative conference deserved it s own status.Serote, making reference to the ANC s upcoming anniversary celebrations on Sunday, said that the event should serve as a platform for the ANC to repair it s public image following its loss of key metros, such as Tshwane, Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay, in last year s local government elections. There was an agreement between the ANC national executive committee and the veterans that the ANC is in serious crisis. We must find a way to renew the ANC. We have to ensure that the ANC is close to the electorate and the people of this country. We have to ensure that there is a fundamental change of direction. Serote reflected on a group of former MK leaders, led by former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda, providing support for the veterans ahead of their preparations towards the consultative conference. The fact of the matter is that they are participating in the renewal of the ANC, he said.Serote added that the ANC should review it s positioning in the global system to keep abreast with developments. They should focus on being parallel to developments internationally, he said.Bonolo Selebano