Despite police warnings about student accommodation scams in Port Elizabeth, people continue to fall victim to the scams and lose money in the process.Last week, an 18 year old paid R3 500 to secure accommodation after responding to an advertisement on the internet.According to the police, the students contacted the person listed in the advertisement and a deposit of R3 500 was transferred into the person s account after photos of the accommodation were sent to them.However, when they went to the address provided, they found that the lodge did not exist and was not owned by the advertiser.The Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) has issued a warning to students to be cautious of bogus accommodation offers, particularly at the start of an academic year when fraudsters actively exploit first-year students, some of them coming to the city for the first time. NMMU is aware of at least two students who have been duped as a result of a bogus accommodation offer in Summerstrand and they are assisting police with their investigations. Police have also issued a general warning about hoax accommodation offers. This warning has been shared on our social media platforms, the institution said in a press release.NMMU warned that students should not forward any money or financial details until they have seen the property in question, or verified that the offer is genuine.Furthermore, NMMU said that if the accommodation offer seemed too good to be true, that was probably the case. NMMU still has accredited offcampus accommodation opportunities. Furthermore, when liaising with NMMU, we urge you to deal only with university staff members as they are authorised to assist you with payment information, housing, registration and any other administrative support. This will help you avoid any negative consequences, NMMU said.The institution said student political parties and student groups have been volunteering their assistance to new students and their families. We also need to emphasise that all monies owing to the university should be paid by you directly to the NMMU cashiers at the respective campuses. Do not deposit any money meant for the university into individuals accounts, NMMU said, warning of other fraud opportunities for scammers.Police said during this time of the year, fraudsters were aware that many students would be looking for accommodation and therefore take full advantage of their desperation. Police advise people looking for property to rent to be extremely cautious when responding to online rental advertisements. Do not ever pay the deposit or rent for a place you haven t seen for yourself. Make sure that you are dealing with the right people, like estate agents. Students should not deposit any money without solid proof of guaranteed accommodation, the police said.indiphileb@thenewage.co.za