STUDENTS from the University of Zululand s Dlangezwa campus will rest easy tonight following a breakthrough in the robbery cases that have plagued the institution s residences.Five suspects believed to be part of a syndicate targeting student cottages have been arrested. Members conducted an intelligencedriven operation in the early hours of this morning and they arrested a total of five suspects believed to be linked to a number of house robberies in the area, police spokesperson Lt-Col Thulani Zwane said.A spate of robberies has left students fearful of leaving their residences in fear of returning to an empty home.Many have lost valuable study materials such as laptops, tablets and cellphones, which aided their research.During the arrest the suspects were found in possession of suspected stolen goods such as TV sets, laptops, clothing, cellphones and two unlicensed pistols believed to be used during robberies. The suspects have been charged with house robbery, possession of stolen goods, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. As the investigation continues, more charges could be added, Zwane said.The breakthrough was made by the Mthunzini police who, following leads on another robbery on Monday, managed to track down the suspects.It is alleged that the suspects broke into a student cottage at KwaDlangezwa at about 11pm. The people inside were then held at gunpoint by the suspects. Cellphones, cash and other items were allegedly taken and the suspects fled the scene on foot. A case of house robbery was opened at Mtunzini police station. The arrested suspects will appear in the Mtunzini Magistrate s Court on Monday, Zwane said.A student at the institution, Kwazi Mngomezulu, said the number of robberies started to increase last year. She said around campus you would hear of students being robbed, some while on their way to class and others at their homes were targeted. Students are easy targets for criminals because they know that in each cottage there could be up to five people and they could all have laptops, cellphones and other expensive gadgets, Mngomezulu said.The arrest of the suspects has been commended by the acting provincial commissioner Maj-Gen Bheki Langa, who said: Our detectives will work around the clock in establishing whether these suspects are linked to any other house robberies in the area. Recovered firearms will be sent for ballistic tests to establish if they were used in any other crimes in the province. -SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO