The decision to leave university isn t always an easy one but for most entrepreneurs, it s the only choice.Many entrepreneurs often tell the tale of dropping out of a university their hopeful parents had enrolled them in to pursue a dream they could no longer defer.Quintin Groenewald at the age of 21 decided to become a property entrepreneur. He was studying law at but decided to leave, armed with a dream to become an entrepreneur in the property industry a far cry from law. I read as much as I could about the industry before telling my father I wanted to take a break from studying law, he said.His father, a successful property developer himself, agreed to Groenewald taking a break on condition that he paid his own way and repayed the university fees. Groenewald was able to do both and make a name for himself in the industry. I started two small businesses one which sold nutritional supplements and a typing service business, which employed several people and netted about R15000 per month.In one year, Groenewald made enough money to repay his father and buy three properties in Honeydew two of which he still owns today.Determined to become a property entrepreneur, Quintin suddenly found himself at the opposite end of the income spectrum after a year of the high life when he joined his father s business in Krugersdorp. I started at rock bottom, mixing cement, working on site and earning the respect of the construction workers in my father s company. It was a hard year but it gave me an invaluable perspective of the property industry from grass roots level, he said.Having earned his stripes, he worked in the family business as a project manager on the construction of a 32-apartment block. He also registered as a real estate agent and sold several of the units he built, while also learning every aspect of the business including the importance of marketing in the property industry.Groenewald saw an opportunity for a business when his father turned down a contract for the development of another block of flats. He took a leap of faith and undertook that project under his name.He registered his own company, GQ Construction, tendered for the job, and found himself at the age of 23 with a R20m construction project. It was successfully completed, but my steep learning curve in the property industry had just begun. The developer for whom he built the apartment block declared bankruptcy just before Groenewald was set to receive his last payment for the project no less than R6m. The last payment consisted mainly of the surplus that we were set to make on the project. Although I did not lose much money, I didn t make any either. Groenewald was dealt a huge blow but decided not turn his back on the industry. My view of the experience is that it has taught me about the financial and legal risks involved in property projects. Now at the age of 33 I understand the lessons behind the experience. I also believe 23-year-old me with R6m would probably have done something irresponsible. Groenewald had to rebuild his business from scratch at a less frenetic pace carrying the lessons he had learned from the previous contract. I was awarded another contract which turned out to be the first of many and I was able to use the properties I bought after my gap year to raise the finance I needed to get going again. Today, GQ Construction employs approximately 500 workers at various construction sites at any one time, including sub-contractors.GQ Construction s head office is based in Potchefstroom is staffed by Groenewald and three colleagues, one of whom is his wife, a qualified chartered accountant.Groenewald said that scarcity of finance has always been the most challenging obstacle in growing his business. His constant search for working capital brought him into contact with Business Partners Limited who agreed to finance his latest development of 23 houses. He said that banks were currently too risk-averse to finance new property developments.At the age of 33, there is still no end in sight for the growth of Quintin s business, nor for his life-long learning. He plans to expand his business further by employing a quantity surveyor and in the foreseeable future. GQ Construction will most likely be busy with student accommodation projects. thelman@thenewage.co.zaTNA Reporter