Those who do not understand the hardships that Judas Moseamedi faced growing up with his widowed mother and two siblings in Sikhibidung village in Tzaneen will never comprehend why he is so proud to be a professional player.For starters, Moseamedi s first trip to Gauteng, organised by Fortune Mangena, would have never happened if it was not for his football talent.At the time, growing up impoverished after his father died when he was young, the Cape Town City striker ha no idea when, if ever, he would see Johannesburg. I will not lie. It was hard when I grew up. My mother was unemployed and when she got something, it meant she had to live away from us. That left me with my older brother and little sister.Then my brother left to study at the University of Limpopo in Turfloop and from then on I had to be the man of the house, Moseamedi said. We did not have much. I doubt if it was not for football, I would have ever had a chance to travel to Gauteng as early as I did. Now that I am here, I want to work hard to help my family and make sure that we have the things that we struggled with growing up.Football changed my life, which is why I am always happy to play. The happy Moseamedi, loved by City coach Eric Tinkler, has not always been this confident after Highlands Park rejected him. At the time, he was playing with his peers in Tembisa, where he started off as a goalkeeper, before moving to centre back, where he was ironically nicknamed Musona after former Kaizer Chiefs and Zimbabwe striker Knowledge Musona.Today, Moseamedi is a cup winning striker for Tinkler s men after winning the Telkom Knockout where he scored the goal that ensured City won 2-1 against SuperSport United in his home town of Polokwane.Having known former SuperSport striker Richard Rantjie as the only player to come from his area, Moseamedi is itching to cultivate a legacy where he will not only be known there as a professional player, but someone who gives a helping hand to the impoverished community. I know my area and how things are. As much as I want to score more goals this year and make it to Bafana Bafana, I would like to make a difference where I can in my community. I was given a chance by someone who believed in me.I would love to do the same for the kids in my area. MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za