South Africans are getting poorer as their wealth continues to decline, with the real value of household assets tumbling at an annualised pace of 0.8% between the second and final quarter of last year and the third quarter of the same year, a recent study revealed.One of the key reasons for the decline is because the real value of household assets is declining. In other words, the real value of worker retirement funds is declining. This as the companies in which the retirement funds are invested are not making big enough profits A Momentum-Unisa survey published yesterday showed that the value of household net wealth at R7.3 trillion at the end of the third quarter, was down R16bn from R7 trillion in the second quarter.This decline is a continuation of a long term and volatile trend that started in 2014. Since registering R7.1 trillion in the second quarter of 2014, the real value of household net wealth failed to increase on a sustainable basis. Household net wealth is important as it is an indicator of the state of households financial health. Households can calculate their net wealth by subtracting their liabilities from their assets.For households to improve their financial wellness, they need to increase the real value of their assets and keep their liabilities, or debt, at affordable levels. Over the past quarter households on average succeeded with the goal of keeping their liabilities in check, but their assets failed to grow a trend that s been ongoing for more than two years. The Momentum-Unisa Household Liabilities Index accelerated by only 0.2%. In addition it was 0.9% lower compared to a year ago.According to the report, the muted increase in household debt can chiefly be ascribed to a reduction in instalment sales credit which is normally driven by purchases of durable goods especially new vehicles. The South African Reserve Bank purchases of durable goods declined at an annualised pace of 3.8% between the two quarters, while it was 7.8% lower than a year before. The main reason for the decline in the household net wealth to disposable income ratio can be ascribed to a decline in the real value of household assets.The lower value of real household assets can be ascribed to proportionally lower contributions to retirement funds and annuities that are invested in among others companies listed on the JSE Stock Exchange, as well as a lack of growth of such investments.-TNA Reporter|business@thenewage.co.za 