There appears to be a decline in property buyers in the Mother City. Only an estimated 13% of buyers in Cape Town purchased a property for the first time last year, the FNB Estate Agent survey said.By comparison, first-time buyers made up 22% and 24% respectively in the major Gauteng regions of greater Johannesburg and Tshwane. Household and property sector strategist at FNB John Loos said: We know that the land-constrained city of Cape Town has experienced significantly faster house price growth than the rest of the major regions in recent years and has a strong net inward migration of repeat home buyers from other regions too. It is possible that affordability challenges in that region are crowding out first-time buyers to a greater extent than in Gauteng a key challenge for Cape Town should it wish to retain its younger skills base within that region. On average, first-time home buyers had it tougher last year, according to the survey for last year. There has been a weakening in the first-time home buyer segment for the past two years.Estate agents surveyed estimated first-time buyers made up 20% of total buying last year, compared to a 26.5% high in 2014 and 24.25% in 2015. Loos said entry level home buyers were arguably more sensitive to economic events and interest rate hikes. They have not yet built up substantial financial reserves and are often heavily dependent on credit in order to make home purchases. Also, couples in many cases have more buying power than a single-status buyer.Therefore, a decline in the estimated percentage of home buyers who are single-status buyers points to tougher financial times, Loos said. This would be either due to interest rate hikes or a weak economy and lack of job creation. In 2016 the estate agents surveyed pointed to a further slight decline in the estimated percentage of single-status home buyers, from 19.5% in 2014 and 17.5% in 2015 to 16.7% last year.The average age of the South African home buyer continues to rise. However, it is also very much about ageing home owners downscaling to smaller homes due to their life stage. They are also driving a longer-term rising trend in the average age of home buyers, Loos said.From 40.92 years in 2007, the average age of individual property buyers (natural persons) has risen to 44.4 years by 2016, a further increase on the 43.82 years in 2015.-Tatenda Chiriseri |provinces@thenewage.co.za 