&nbsp;Mzansi Magic recently unleashed its most compelling female prison drama series, Lockdown. The show, which made its debut two weeks ago, has been received with enthusiasm by scores of television viewers who have not stopped raving about the gritty performances of its cast.Many even went as far as saying the show would mark the end of SABC1 s Generations: The Legacy s dominance of the 8pm prime time slot.What makes the show a cut above the rest is that it represents a break from male-dominated stories as it explores the explosive lives of women prisoners at the hands of women prison warders, something that has never been fully explored on SA television screens.The show is dominated by a starstudded female cast that features talented dancer and former Backstage super star, Lorcia Cooper as one of the lead cast members. Cooper plays the role of Tyson, a tough prison boxing champion who is temperamental, treacherous and wants to rule her fellow inmates with an iron fist.Then there is Uzalo actress, Dawn Thandeka King, Z bondiwe s starlet, Zola Nombona and former Generations actress Slindile Nondangala known to many television fans as Mam Ruby all in prominent roles. On social media, Cooper s return to prime time television has been received with warmth and many going gaga over her convincing portrayal of a female prison gangster.The drama s director, producer and founder of Black Brain Pictures, Mandla Ngcongwane or Mandla N as he is popularly referred to, spoke to The New Age on the processes of producing the company s first drama series after making a name for themselves as SA s number one sitcom production company. The company has pitched drama shows to broadcasters before. However, since we have been known as the sitcom production company and I have been personally known as the funny guy, it has been difficult for broadcasters to give us a chance. We are grateful to Mzansi Magic which has risked its reputation for us. Judging from the response so far, we have proven that we can do it and people are going to see more such shows from us in the near future, the brains behind Black Brain Pictures said. Mandla N says casting for the show took him and the team more than nine months to finalise before he could start filming. For us it was important to cast the right kind of people.If you look at our lead actors, they are not popular on social media, they hardly have followers and unlike many other shows where casting is determined by social media popularity. We wanted quality actors.It is all about the craft and the passion of telling authentic women stories and that was the main point. We wanted the kind of actors who are able to translate their passion for the craft and the intensity of the story on screen, the Gang of Instrumentals frontman said. Mandla N said that while all the technical aspects of Lockdown would bode well for the future of the series, his pride and joy was the fact that the show had been able to absorb young people and members of the community into its fold.These he said included six real life prisoners as well as aspiring actors from nearby communities. We had to use a real prison and real prisoners to get the story right. I learnt a lot as a director from the prisoners who helped me out as well as community members. The success of the show is not based on my vision alone, but is reflective of the teamwork that we have put into the making of the show. I am glad that the channel trusted me enough to allow me and the team to produce a show that has been received well by the media and the people. The stories we tell are real life stories, a lot of research went into this show as we wanted to really explore a side of women that nobody has ever told before. It is truly a roller coaster ride of how far a woman can be pushed, Mandla N said.In the coming weeks the talented actor, musician, director, producer and businessman promises viewers a season filled with lots of back-stabbing, violence and some light-hearted moments as Lockdown progresses.SIYABONGA SITHOLE |siyabongas@thenewagw.co.za