The ANC yesterday conceded that it did not have a winning formula on the election of leadership, amid a debate over who will take over the reins of the ANC.ANC Gauteng provincial spokesperson Nkenke Kekana responded to a recent decision by the ANC Women s League (ANCWL) to breaks ranks with the party s decision to keep a lid on its succession debate by publicly endorsing Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as its preferred candidate to lead the ANC after president Jacob Zuma.He said that while the women s league was an autonomous structure of the ANC and therefore had a right to nominate its preferred candidate, the party was in need of a round table discussion on the matter. Elective conferences by their nature are very difficult. It s a contestation and we are expecting the leaders of provinces to come together and find a unified way of deciding who should lead the ANC, Kekana said.He said that a meeting of minds on the ANC s leadership election race was needed now, more than ever. It is premature for any structure of the ANC to come out now before you give that opportunity for that round table discussion. We need a round table discussion with all provinces because the ANC cannot afford another battle on who should lead the ANC as 2019 is just around the corner. Kekana s comments come against the background of the ANC s election contest having gained momentum.The ANCWL recently nominated Dlamini Zuma to lead the party at its election conference later this year. This comes after the ANC s alliance partner Cosatu, having last year endorsed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to lead the party.Kekana, making reference to the ANCWL s officially backing Dlamini Zuma, despite the ANC not having opened the succession debate, said that the party could ill afford any more public spats on the matter. All that I can say is that the ANC leadership, ANC branches, provinces and regions must come around the table and discuss the issue of leadership. There s no point in going into a public spat around leadership. Whoever is going to lead the ANC must be a product of a round table discussion. The ANCWL is an autonomous structure but it s a section and not the whole of the ANC. At the end of the day, the organisation has the responsibility to choose its leaders. Kekana switched focus to the levels of support the ANC s 105th anniversary celebration received from the party faithful. We had 800 buses just in Gauteng, apart from those who use their cars to come to Orlando Stadium. We are happy at the commitment of our branch members. We knew that the stadium was going to be full. It was also a farewell to our president (Zuma), it is his last January 8 speech. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za