The Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services (DTPS) employee, Tsakani Oupa Rikhotso Shimange, 38, who was shot and killed by a metro cop in Pretoria on January 6 was laid to rest on Saturday.Shimange was laid to rest in Giyani, Limpopo, one day after the Tshwane metro police department, Const Takatso Mashego, 27, who shot him, was granted R5000 bail.Family, friends, work colleagues and community leaders remembered Shimange through song, prayers and tears.Shimange, who had worked at the department since 2004, was shot just a few metres from the department s offices in Hatfield.DTPS Deputy Minister Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize said it was heartening to see the village and Shimange s colleagues come out in large numbers to pay their last respects. The village came out in large numbers and when we look at the type of person he was, it shows us that it takes an entire community to raise a child, Mkhize said.She condemned the killing, saying there was no explanation to justify killing an unarmed person at 9am in the presence of three other police officers. During apartheid, the police did not show understanding of people s rights, but we worked so hard and communicated in parliament that the police in a democracy would be trained differently and adhere to democratic values and the culture of human rights. But here we are, we have somebody, who pulls a gun at 9am in the morning, with three colleagues facing this guy who was alone in the car. You don t see what the threat was. Even if they argued about something, it did not warrant a shooting, she said.DTPS deputy director general administration, Thuli Manzini echoed Mkhize s sentiments, adding it was important to let justice take its course. We condemn it and we are going to leave all that in the hands of the police and everything will be revealed in due course. We will know that truth. We have a lot of questions but we hope through the investigation we will be able to get the truth, Manzini said.She said the department was cheered by the moving send-off Shimange received. He was laid to rest in a very dignified manner, it showed how he related to people both in the department and community because I see the way the people attended and the type of speakers, who included the chiefs, councillors and other dignitaries were there, Manzini said.Laccy Shimange, the deceased s uncle, said it was hard to come to terms with his nephew s untimely death. You can t cope when you lose someone you love dearly, especially when they re still young. You expect them to be the one burying you as opposed to you burying them, he said.Shimange is survived by his wife Sibongile Ntlwane, 37 and two children.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za