The position of Dr Ben Ngubane to continue serving as Eskom board chairperson, as well as his suitability to serve on other state-owned enterprises, has come under the spotlight.Raising the subject of Ngubane at a meeting of the ad hoc committee into the SABC yesterday, DA deputy chief whip Mike Waters questioned Ngubane s leadership abilities.He asked if the committee should not recommend in its report that the Public Enterprises Portfolio Committee investigate his ability to continue to lead Eskom and serve on the boards of other state-owned enterprises.Contacted for comment, Ngubane said: How can I comment if I haven t seen the report? I will see what happens. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown declined to comment.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa could not be reached for comment.Former public protector Thuli Madonsela said Waters had made damaging findings against Ngubane s leadership of the board at the SABC.Yesterday UDM MP Nqabayomzi Kwankwa said he agreed with Waters, but added that the issues, such as Ngubane lying to the ad hoc committee under oath, had to be separated.The legal team assisting the committee would have to look at this, he said. Honourable Waters was talking more about the leadership of Ngubane and whether it is okay for him to occupy leadership at state-owned enterprises. The committee, Kwankwa said, should recommend that the Public Enterprises Portfolio Committee do something about the chairperson of the Eskom board .Phumzile van Damme, of the DA, was more opinionated. We should recommend outright that he cannot serve on the Eskom board, she said.The ACDP s Steve Swart urged pragmatism in the matter. I m also in support of Waters. I think we must phrase it very carefully. Ngubane, he said, was a person who has a public protector s finding against him. We are considering referring this to the Public Enterprises Portfolio Committee. There he will get a chance to respond. He asked specifically for our interim report to be sent to him. Ad hoc committee chairperson Vincent Smith reminded the meeting that MPs had taken a conscious decision at the outset that ours was going to be inquisitorial and not accusatorial .He added: On Friday we will have a draft report including draft recommendations. We will send it out to affected parties. Shouldn t some of that say we ve given you our observations. We now feel that this should be done? Meanwhile, the ad hoc committee has mandated its legal team to inform the immediate past SABC board chairperson Prof Mbulaheni Maguvhe, who quit in December after the inquiry had started, that he will have to pay the legal costs incurred in the failed SABC bid in the Cape High Court to stop the inquiry.The lawyers will also investigate whether a legal firm that has been assisting the SABC has been struck of the roll and has been acting in a fraudulent manner.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za