Long queues, uncertainty and frustrated parents marked the day before the start of the 2017 school year in Gauteng yesterday.Thousands of pupils are set to miss the start of the school year despite the introduction of an online application system meant to ensure things ran seamlessly this year.As of yesterday, 40000 pupils had not been placed and, despite this, the department said it was ready to start the academic year today,Spokesperson Oupa Bodibe said it was comforting that the majority of parents who had used the online system had been placed. We extend our deepest and sincere apology to parents for the frustration caused by the delay in placements, especially those parents who applied early, Bodibe said. The department is working hard to place all pupils and assures all parents their children will be placed in a Gauteng school. The delay in the placement of pupils has been attributed to a number of reasons, including late applications, schools not being able to update the system during the December holidays and Gauteng facing a shortage of schools and a rising number of pupils seeking placement.In 2016, Gauteng education reported a shortage of 159 schools across the province.Announcing the state of preparedness last year, MEC Panyaza Lesufi said the department was preparing to deliver eight new brick and mortar schools, 12 new ACT schools, 603 additional ACT classrooms (ordinary and special education needs), 314 Grade R classrooms and 160 toilet blocks in 2017, to address the pressure. He said there were 2368264 pupils enrolled in Gauteng schools.An increase of 105945 pupils was recorded between 2015 and 2016 (a 4.47% increase). Rapid inward migration remains a contributing factor to the growth in numbers. The most come from Limpopo followed by Eastern Cape, he said.Still, frustrated parents who descended on the district offices yesterday blamed the government for their failure to secure places for their children.Among the group of parents were those trying to change their allocated schools, those moving from different provinces and those who said they were failed by the online applications system.Johannes Kekana said although he applied online and on time, the school he had applied for told him that it had not received confirmation from the department that his child had been placed there. He applied for space in Grade 1. This system is non-functional. They thought it was a solution but it is not. We still have to queue to get things done, he said.Kekana was among the parents in a spiralling queue outside the Tshwane South district offices in the Pretoria CBD. Yesterday was his second day outside the offices.Elois Naraindoo said it was frustrating having to spend most of her day outside the district offices, even with a system that was meant to make applying easier. There was no communication from the department. I have been out here since 9am. The system is useless if I still have to come here, she said.In Mamelodi, parents blocked the gate at the Mamelodi Teachers Centre with burning tyres. We have not bought uniforms because we don t know where our children will be attending schools, we are confused, one parent said.LILLIAN SELAPISA and DIMAKATSO MODIPAsnn4@thenewage.co.za