Parks Tau, the newly-elected United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) president, visited the UCLG world secretariat this month with the aim of discussing the action plan for 2017 and the strategy for the implementation of the 2030 and Habitat III Agendas. During his visit, Tau underlined his will to enhance the network and continue UCLG’s legacy “to build democratic and sustainable territories based on solidarity”. Tau, who is also the president of the South African Local Government Association (Salga) as well as a councillor for the city of Johannesburg was elected president of the world body last year in Bogotá, in the framework of the UCLG Congress and World Summit of Local and Regional Leaders. Salga said Tau’s first visit to the UCLG headquarters was a great opportunity to meet the world secretariat staff and the secretariats of the committees based in Barcelona, as well as the staff of Metropolis and the International Association of Educating Cities. The agenda of the UCLG president also included a meeting with the mayor of the Barcelona and co-president of UCLG, Ada Colau. Both local leaders discussed the importance of local action for sustainability and the challenges ahead for the implementation of the recently adopted global agendas. On the last day of his visit, the whole UCLG world secretariat team presented and shared their activities, programmes and proposals for 2017 and beyond with the president. Tau congratulated the team for their past achievements and stressed the need “to acknowledge the diversity of UCLG members as a strength for the localisation of the global agendas in our territories” going forward. The road map for the joint UCLG strategy will be shaped during the third edition of the annual retreat, taking place in Barcelona from February 20-24, as well as on the campus for committees and working groups, taking place today and tomorrow. “These two gatherings will bring together representatives of the presidency, sections, committees and key partners.” Salga said. NTOMBI NKOSI