Over the years, there has been a notion that football only rewards goal scorers.Every single year goalkeepers are overlooked for top individual awards, with players playing in more attacking roles getting all the accolades.Even centre-backs have not been lucky with regards to getting top honours that they truly deserve at times.Ever since England great Sir Stanley Matthews won the Ballon d Or award in its inaugural year back in 1956, just one goalkeeper, Russian Lev Yashin, has won the award.From them on, it has always been a so near, yet so far for goalkeepers as strikers and goal scoring midfielders earned the rewards.Mamelodi Sundowns goalkeeper Denis Onyango s triumph as African footballer of the year for players based on the continent, supplemented by Leicester City keeper s Kasper Schmeichel s win as Denmark footballer of the year builds strong cases for goalkeepers in future.The only goalkeeper to be taken seriously in the last 10 years other than Onyango and Schmeichel has to be Bayern Munich and Germany keeper Manuel Neuer, who won the Bundesliga footballer of the year in 2011 and 2014.Neuer got close to the Ballon d Or in 2014, but finished third behind second placed Lionel Messi and top placed Cristiano Ronaldo.In the PSL, Itumeleng Khune might have saved Kaizer Chiefs lots of points, winning them league championships and cups in the process, but the goalkeeper has nothing to show for his exploits, in comparison to his goal scoring teammates.The same can be said about one of the world s best ever keepers Gianluigi Buffon, who despite finishing second to Fabio Cannavaro on the Ballon d Or list in 2006, and remaining consistent over the years, has never even won the Serie footballer of the year award.Onyango s victory in Africa writes a new chapter for goalkeepers, who are at times never thought of as superstars in their teams, unless they save three or four penalties in a single match.The Ugandan goalkeeper, who will be playing at the Africa Cup of Nations with his national team the Ugandan Cranes, said it was not easy for him as a goalkeeper to win the CAF footballer of the year award ahead of infield players, who are more loved and revered by the public. It was not easy. It is never easy for goalkeepers against these infield players. I had a fantastic season as well. I thought those players would get it. You have to be at your best all the time to be recognised ahead of all these players, Onyango said. It is fantastic. It is not easy to win such an award. It is even hard being nominated against good quality players like Khama Billiat and Rainford Kalaba. This is a great achievement. This achievement has boosted me. It has given me a new kind of belief, and challenges me to redouble my efforts, the Uganda national team keeper said.With the new year having started on a high note for keepers, other shot stoppers like Manchester United s David de Gea and Thibaut Courtois of Chelsea will fancy their chances at changing the narrative and proving that goalkeepers too are worthy of top individual medals even in a team of goalscorers.MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za