The ANC s national working committee (NWC) yesterday resolved that no members or structures of the ruling party will be allowed to publicly discuss names of people considered as a successor to incumbent president Jacob Zuma.Speaking at a editors briefing in Johannesburg yesterday, ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said that the NWC s decision will be communicated as a directive to ANC branches .Duarte also said that contestation is not a crime in the ANC.Secretary-general Gwede Mantashe also defended the party against accusations that it is stifling debate on the succession issue. The debate on succession is not closed or suppressed, however (we request that people leave out names). This must be debated as principle rather than for and against. We must be open for discussion. Succession battles have been there since time immemorial. However, there is a need to steer the ship. We need to ensure that there is balance between policy issues and name dropping. Naming names could limit the choices of ANC branches. This creates problems for the policy conference. We need space for policy discussion. People can lobby but only after the policy conference, said Mantashe.Duarte said that the nomination process must be objective and should stand the test of time. She said it should not be a popular process only.Regarding the possibility of disgruntled groups splitting from the ANC after its elective conference, Duarte said that they could not prevent schisms, but that the ANC s role is to politicize its cadres to accept decisions of conference . We are hoping to minimize the use of lists and factions and will produce a list that will be reflective of demographics, said Duarte.Mantashe also said that preparations for the ANC s upcoming policy conference are in full swing. He said two workshops were held last week to finalise draft documents. The policy conference talks to policy and real issues affecting people. The economy needs focused attention, with education a major issue, he said.Duarte said there was an ongoing evaluation of the implementation of the NDP and that there would be a major focus on the economy, particularly on the role of SMEs and land planning to stimulate economic growth.Mantashe said that naming names would derail the focus of the conference, which is technical rather than political.Land reform is also expected to take centre stage at the policy conference. The matter of land reform was discussed at length in the policy workshop. The 2015 national general council also made it views known. We want actual plan. When land is expropriated, what will be done, what support is in place? It is not about just returning land, it is now interlinked with the NDP and the agricultural development plan. We cannot continue saying that land must be given back rhetorically, said Duarte.Commenting on the demands made by some ANC veterans for a separate consultative conference, rather than a veterans conference being integrated into the broader policy conference, Mantashe said that at a meeting on Monday, the veterans were reminded that at last year s national executive conference the proposal for a full-blown veterans conference was rejected. We have moved past disagreeing on principle. The discussion is now on logistics. There is a realisation that it is not about the event but rather policy formulation, said Mantashe.Mantashe also voiced concern over the Democratic Alliance s flirtation with Taiwan and Israel. The DA has a historic relationship with the ruling party in Taiwan. They want to attack SA s support of the one China policy. South Africa should follow the Nigerian example and withdraw the diplomatic status of Taiwan s representative office. The DA s visit to Israel is part of their strategy to undermine the ANC and its sovereign policies of the country, Mantashe said.Ricky Naidoorickyn@thenewage.co.za