The father of one of four children killed in Protea, Soweto, has forgiven hip hop singer Jub Jub (Katlego Molemo Maarohanye) and his friend, Themba Tshabalala, who caused the deaths of the pupils while they were racing on a public road under the influence of drugs.Speaking to The New Age, Fezekile Cwayi, father of Mlungisi, said he and his wife had forgiven the two even though they had not asked for forgiveness. I have spoken to them twice, during the parole board hearings last October as well as in November. I told them they should change their ways and I know they have learnt from their mistake. It was not an easy thing to do. As a family, we have forgiven them as they have shown remorse, he said.Cwayi said the family had had high hopes for Mlungisi. He wanted to study law and he loved golf. However, we accept that God s will prevailed and accidents happen, Cwayi said.Nomakhosi Nongoma, a relative of Maarohanye s father, said she was caught in the middle as she is also a neighbour to the Masemola family who lost a child in the accident. It s an emotional situation. It hurts. Just this morning Jub Jub s father was here, and we go back a long way to our days in the Free State. I raised both Jub Jub and the Masemola child. It hurts when people say I am a witch who caused Jub Jub to kill the children, she said.Jub Jub and Tshabalala were released on parole yesterday after serving four years and one month of their eight-year sentences.Neighbours had mixed reactions. One man said while the sentence might seem lenient, he believed the pair had learnt a big lesson. I believe they have shown remorse and were willing to contribute to the well-being of the victims families, he said.Jub Jub, who has not spoken to the media, was sentenced in the Protea Magistrate s Court to 25 years in prison for killing four children during a drag race in March 2010. The sentence was reduced to eight years on appeal.The department said the pair will complete their sentences in the system of community corrections. They must comply with specific conditions and will be under supervision.The department said the families of the victims were invited too and some participated in the deliberations of the parole board.SIYABONGA SITHOLE