A NEW acting municipal manager has taken up the reins at Ramotshere Moiloa local municipality in Zeerust. Abel Monchusi was seconded to the municipality following the recent resignation of former acting municipal manager Thompson Phakalane. Monchusi has had experience in local government as he was employed as an administrative officer at Ratlou local municipality in 2002. He later worked as a manager for corporate services and acted as municipal manager at the same municipality. Ramotshere Mioloa mayor Kereng Mothoagae said Monchusi s experience and qualifications helped a great deal in him being given the opportunity to advance his profession. She said the decision to appoint him was based on a council resolution to request assistance from the provincial departments of local government and human settlements and the provincial treasury. Monchusi will be the acting in the position for a period not exceeding three months while the municipality looks to appoint someone permanent. Applications for the position of municipal manager have been closed and the short-listing processes will unfold in due course. Monchusi will be responsible for general managerial duties of the institution, ensuring sound management of the council budget, render advisory services to the council and its committees, ensure that the municipality complies with all applicable legislations, IDP review, budgeting process, community participation, ensure that council implements local economic development projects aimed at empowering local people and creating job opportunities, Mothoagae said. The mayor said the council had appraised the profile of Monchusi and has no doubt that he was a competent candidate to lead the municipality. On his part, Monchusi said he needed the support of everyone to take Ramotshere Moiloa to greater heights. I was seconded here for a particular period. I hope that during my stay in this municipality we will be able to work together. My office will always be open but I must warn you that we will only discuss issues that are related to the vision and mission of the municipality. Compliance to all legislation is the slogan we should align ourselves with, he said. Unlike his predecessor who had a cloud over his head due to allegations that he did not possess relevant qualifications, Monchusi s appointment has been welcomed by all. DA councillor at the municipality, Cornel Dreyer said: We are giving the new acting municipal manager the benefit of the doubt because we understand he will serve for three months before a permanent appointment is made. He said more focus will be directed to scrutinising the person who will be appointed to be the substantive municipal manager. Last year, opposition parties opposed a new salary proposal by the acting municipal manager, saying he was not suitably qualified to occupy the position. Circumstances around Phakalane s resignation remain hazy but he is understood to be back within the municipality. ELFAS TORERAI