The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) is facing heat over its state of readiness to take over the country’s grant payments from April 1. According to a source in Sassa the agency is now considering an extension of the present service provider Cash Paymaster Services’ (CPS’s) contract to avert plunging the country into a crisis that could spell starvation for millions who depend on grants. “We are nowhere near ready to take over the payment of grants internally. CPS will likely continue while we sort ourselves out,” the source said. In April 2014, the Constitutional Court ordered the department to take over payments of social grants due to irregular tender processes in appointing CPS. Last month, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini and her director-general, Zane Dangor, told Parliament that the 17 million recipients of social grants would be paid in April 2017. However, exactly two months before the takeover date, Sassa are yet to get a banking and IT partner, which are both key in the monthly distribution of R10bn to 17 million beneficiaries. An invitation to service providers for social grants payments and banking services to bid for the Sassa national tender was put out on the national Treasury website on December 9 with the closing date listed as February 10. When the ConCourt ruled that the CPS contract was unlawful, it said a new tender would need to follow largely the same processes as the initial tender. “This process took nearly three years with an overall cost of about R6m. Based on the previous process, Sassa estimated that the total time for implementing a new system would be not less than 24 months and would cost between R5m and R10m,” part of the ruling read. Parliament’s portfolio committee on social development has summoned Sassa and the department of social development for an urgent meeting on Wednesday in Parliament amid growing fears they would not make the April 1 deadline to pay grants internally. The crisis deepened when Sassa cancelled a briefing to the portfolio committee yesterday because Dlamini was attending the ANC’s lekgotla. MTHOKOZISI DUBE