Major towns in the Eastern Cape, including Mthatha, have been affected by the shortages of clean water.It has become common for residents in these areas to go for weeks without water.Areas that are affected are mainly in the OR Tambo district including Lusikisiki, Port St Johns and Tsolo.According to Statistics South Africa (StatsSA) which has compiled the Water and Sanitation analysis of the General Household Survey 2005- 2015 and Community Survey 2016 data report, water shortages have a widespread impact on the proper functioning of communities.The shortage of clean drinking water has a negative impact on especially women and children who have to spend hours collecting water from sources that are situated outside their communities. Water shortages also result in unhygienic conditions and may lead to outbreaks of diseases such as cholera and dysentry.A community member in Mthatha s Payne Kholeka Gaso Village said when they did not have water, they have to fetch water at Amendu Bakery Company not too far from where they live because it has a constant supply. Other people do the same and go to businesses near where they live, which seem not to be affected by the water cuts.Gaso said when there was water she would fill up all the buckets in her house. Others who have money go to town and buy five litres of water for R25. I do not know why other places always have water and some areas, like Payne sometimes do not have water, Gaso said.A resident in the OR Tambo district in Corani Siyabulela Qotyana blamed SANRAL for damaging the water pipes when it was fixing roads infrastructure. People do not have water right now, fortunately for me I can drive to town and get water. Unfortunately people without cars fetch water at the river close by, Qotyana said.He also said that the availability of water was inconsistent. The thing is that sometimes there is water from 10am to 4pm and then for weeks it is different, where there is absolutely no water or water comes at different times. This results in water being wasted because other people leave taps open and when the water comes back at night, for example, it all goes to waste and we wake up with flooded streets and yet still with dry taps, Qotyana said.Another community member from Lusikisiki, Sihlitho Sibulele Mbiyoza, said the problem of water in the rural areas of the Eastern Cape was one that has existed for a very long time and that he had no hope that the problem would ever being fixed. We have stopped asking the government for water because (the government) has not provided it. We do not have taps, we use tanks and when there is no water in the tanks we fetch water at the river. Thobeka Mqamelo, manager communications liaison from the Chris Hani District municipality admitted that there was a problem with the availability of water.She said dry dams make it an even bigger problem. One of the solutions we came up with was to use boreholes to help pump water in areas such as Queenstown. This solution is not completely helpful because it requires us to have water restrictions from between 8pm and 4am, Mqamelo said. There is high consumption of water during the festive season and therefore the shortage of water remains an issue. Fortunately enough for some areas such as Ezibeleni that are situated in low lying areas when water is being pumped in. But for those in highline areas, it takes a while to receive water, Mqamelo said.She said that the water restrictions started last year and that people knew the times at which they should expect to have water.Mqamelo also said that they always encouraged communities to save water