The failure of the South African Revenue Service (SARS) to take action against an employee who publicly criticised government policy, has miffed Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.Commenting in a written reply about SARS official Luther Lebelo, Gordhan noted his displeasure over a letter published under his own name in Business Day on November 28, 2016.The letter carried the headline Gangster Ratings Agencies. Lebelo apparently wrote it in his capacity as head of communication and media at the Progressive Professionals Forum.In parts of the letter Lebelo says: The governing ANC, which has been voted into power by the citizenry of South Africa, the majority of whom are black Africans, has been tamed and managed by the ratings agencies. The ANC is more worried about what the rating agencies will think than about what the poor African majority thinks, hence its gradual loss of electoral power. The ANC must defeat the terror of fear from these CIA-organised gangs and start fearing the voters. Gordhan, in a written parliamentary reply to the DA s David Maynier, said SARS had not authorised Lebelo to pen the letter. Neither would SARS, he said, be acting against Lebelo because he had written to Business Day in his private and personal capacity.However, as far as the Finance Ministry was concerned, Lebelo is a senior and influential manager in SARS.As such he should not be commenting on a sensitive and serious matter such as ratings in the public domain. Mr Lebelo s attack on the ruling party, the ANC, is both from a point of ignorance and unwarranted, Gordhan said.He said Lebelo displayed a complete lack of understanding of the role of borrowing money both locally and from foreign lenders to help social programmes for the poor. It is the very same poor and vulnerable middle class South Africans, the vast majority of whom are black, who will be affected by rising interest rates should the South African sovereign lose its investment grading, Gordhan said.He said Lebelo s letter to the media indicated clearly that he was writing in two capacities, one of which was group executive of employment relations, SARS. Surely he cannot be allowed to attack the very government that pays his salary on a matter that is of importance to all South Africans, except those who pursue an ignominious agenda against the national interests with impunity? The SARS management must account for their lack of action in this matter. news@thenewage.co.za