You can spot black people who vote DA from a mile away. By the way they talk. When pressed, they will splutter and explain that they refuse to be categorised. They aren t defined by the colour of their skin.Black people who vote DA, when you ask them if they are going to the black workers association meeting, they shake their heads and tell you about their white friends who are the sweetest people on earth and why should they choose between black and white.Then they go for the kill. It s not white people who make them choose, maybe it used to be that way but now white people are willing to treat them like persons. No, it s black people who make them choose. Who always make everything about race. Now it is black people who always tell other black people they cannot be who they want to be.Black people who vote DA, they like to talk about the richness of multiculturalism, until you notice that they actually avoided black people. Black people who vote DA, when they do experience racism, they are not so much enraged by the fact that racism was what less fortunate blacks experience daily although that s what they tell themselves but they are enraged because they have stretched themselves with assimilation in culture and somehow they have been mistaken for an ordinary black person.Black people who vote DA. Tired of wearing the black badge, of struggle, of being poor, of being pigeon-holed, making sure to stay away from the university conversations around Marxism and neocolonialism, Frans Fanon, Euro-centrism and patriarchy.They just want a happy life, with material well-being. Why are black people so angry, so sensitive, can t we just all move on and enjoy the Rainbow Nation?But one need never ask what s bothering us about black people who vote DA, it s on the nightly news for all to see and if we could acknowledge at least that much then the tragic cycle may begin to break.For some people, it take almost a lifetime for them to see just how fates play themselves out, the difference that colour and money makes. What delays this realisation is the limited progress to be had when a black men is well mannered and does not seem angry all the time.This however becomes a conversation from the results backwards. Let s start from the beginning. According to 1993 statistics black people constituted 75% of the population (excluding coloureds and Indians).When they are both included, the black populations stood at 86%. The next year, the ANC went into those life changing elections and garnered 62.6% of the vote. The National Party, which would naturally have gone to the elections in 1994 counting on the white vote got 20.4% of the vote. The white population was 14%.An estimated 6% of black people voted for the National Party. The rest may have been those who did not qualify because of age and nationality criteria. Given that the UN declared apartheid a crime against humanity, why would any black person vote for the National Party?History is riddled with answers. First of all, the nature of relations between the various groups of all Africans. South Africans, with no exceptions, were greatly affected in the 16th century by the intrusion of the British.During that period some people made their accommodation with the colonisers and others did not, in effect pitting one group of black people against another in the context of foreign rule. Those who made peace with the colonisers rule and began to make a living within it, even today, relate differently to those who didn t.The first thing the coloniser did to those black people who accepted his rule is to tell black people that it is because of their skills that the coloniser chose them. They are better than other blacks. Whatever little resources those blacks accumulated, they were told they deserved it, they earned it, they worked hard, unlike their primitive and lost brothers.So the coloniser never liked black people who stood up to them for themselves and for our people. Those who wanted to go along to get along, who craved white acknowledgement and acceptance gave colonialism and apartheid a life.Here has always been the consequential strategy of the coloniser.It is necessary that black people trust and depend on us. They must love, respect and trust us only.Enter the ANC. The quest to prove that black people were as great if not greater than white people in order for black people to regain their pride and self-worth seemed at the core of its founding.The greatness of the ANC began right at that point in 1912. The founding fathers of the ANC broke the mould and exceeded the very system that was built to prove them less human, not only receiving what has always been considered the best education in the world, they had taken that very education to its highest levels possible, threatening the world with that which has always been feared the most, #BlackExcellence.Pixley ka Isaka Seme, one of the ANC founders and presidents of the ANC, was the first black South African lawyer. At the age of 17 Seme left to study in the US. He went first to the Mount Hermon School and then to study at Columbia University.In 1906, his senior year at university, he was awarded the Curtis Medal, Columbia s highest oratorical honour. He subsequently decided to become an attorney.In October 1906 he was admitted to Oxford University to read for the degree of bachelor of civil law. This was already enough to inspire the black nation to demand their rightful place in their own country and among the people of the world.Solomon Tshekisho Plaatje, another ANC founding father, was a South African intellectual, journalist, linguist, politician, translator and writer.Plaatje travelled to England to protest the Natives Land Act of 1913 and later to Canada and the US where he met Marcus Garvey and WEB Du Bois. Plaatje was the first black South African to write a novel in English.John Langalibalele Dube, yet another ANC founding father, was a South African essayist, philosopher, educator, politician, publisher, editor, novelist and poet. He attended Oberlin College in the US.He later founded the newspaper Ilanga (lase Natal). Saul Msane, another founding father, was an African politician and an intellectual, a prominent member of the Wesleyan Methodist Church and a newspaper editor.He served for a period 1917-1919 as ANC secretary-general ANC founding fathers, in their advanced education, their intellect, their way about the world and their strategic thinking, inspired the black nation to stand up and start demanding their humanity back.Yonela DikoYonela Diko is a writer and commentator