Despite common curriculum and no statutory racial discrimination in the education system, some parents still prefer private or independent schools to public schools when it comes to education for their children. Private schools with boarding facilities are good choices for working or studying couples. I am a social worker and my wife is away pursuing a masters degree in agriculture. Our two children are enrolled at a private school and stay there because I often arrive home late or have to attend work-related events far away, Alpheus Sekgone, 37, a social worker employed by the Limpopo government, said.Some parents love private because children there are not only surrounded by learning material often lacking at public schools but are taught other skills such as bed-making and personal hygiene at boarding facilities. Instead of paying for a domestic worker, we pay a private school for education and a better upbringing. Children are even assisted with their homework and assignments, thus relieving many busy parents and guardians of these responsibilities, said a nursing sister who preferred to remain anonymous.Others like her who do not want to be named claim children at independent schools get discipline and most grow up under a multi-racial environment that was not allowed under apartheid rule. Some see private schools as symbols of status where children can pronounce English words without a twang. Unfortunately the governance and commitment on the part of teachers and pupils in public schools has collapsed. I feel pity for those who cannot afford private education, a parent said.Cosas provincial executive committee s Ayanda Mokwana says it would have been better if all things said to be bright and beautiful about private schools were also found in public schools. Better education should be accessible to all, especially the majority, Mokwana said. SACouncil for Educators spokesperson Thembi Ndhlovu says teachers at both independent and public schools are governed by the same ethical rules set down by his council. Teachers are also governed by additional rules by respective institutions to beef up ethical conduct of teachers. We do not register them in terms of public or independent schools, we register them to teach and they choose where they wish to go, Ndhlovu said.According to the Independent Examination Board (IEB) there were 13 independent schools (affiliated to the board) in Limpopo during 2016.A total of 372 pupils out of these schools sat for the IEB Grade 12 examinations and all obtained good passes. The IEB has prioritised the protection of its examination from breaches of security as far as possible using sophisticated technology and emphasising the ethical role that teachers must play in building an ethical society, CEO Anne Oberholzer said.MONTSHO MATLALAmontshom@thenewage.co.za