The South African Human Rights Commission strongly condemns the desecration of places of worship. Recent incidents of concern in the Western Cape include the placing of a pig s snout on the gate of Noorul Islam Masjied in Simon s Town on Saturday morning and a further incident at the Masjidul-Jamiah in Kalk Bay on Monday, where the mosque was splattered with blood and Holy Scriptures damaged. The South African Human Rights Commission strongly condemns these actions, which display a flagrant disregard for constitutionally enshrined rights to freedom of religion, dignity, and equality for all. Freedom of religion is a human right and all places of worship are sacrosanct. Our Constitution protects freedom of religion and thus we cannot allow this type of action to persist in a society based on equality and diversity, Prof Bongani Majola,chairperson of the commission, said.The Cosatu-affiliated Southern African Clothing and Textile Workers Union (Sactwu) has also registered its disgust at the recent attacks on the Muslim community. The most recent attack on the mosque in Kalk Bay indicates an orchestrated campaign to deliberately disrupt the religious tolerance which we have experienced for centuries in Cape Town. We appeal that these attacks do not go unpunished and that the Muslim community are kept safe and respected, it said in a statement.Western Cape mayor Patricia de Lille said this week police must ensure the culprits are brought to book. I appeal to all residents who have information about this terrible act to come forward and cooperate with authorities conducting investigations. The SAHRC said it heartened by the swift action of the South African Police Services and the criminal investigation which is under way. It called on the SAPS to intensify its efforts to identify the perpetrators.The Muslim Judicial Council has lodged a complaint arising from the incidents with the commission. The commission is assessing the situation, with a view to initiating its own enquiry into the matter once the perpetrators have been identified. The commission is established in terms of Chapter 9 of the Constitution of South Africa to support constitutional democracy and is mandated in the Constitution to promote respect, monitor, and assess the observance of human rights in South Africa .The commission has further powers in terms of the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, which prohibits discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, religion, ethnic or social origin, colour, culture and language.-Tatenda Chiriseri|news@thenewage.co.za 