Whispers swirling around the corridors of power about a possible Cabinet reshuffle after the budget speech on February 22 hit the rand hard on Friday. The currency had been enjoying a good run against major currencies since the beginning of this month, trading well below R14/$.In the past week it improved to between R13.20$ and R13.38/$. But talk that President Jacob Zuma was considering firing ministers who have backed calls for his resignation, or who oppose him in other ways, appear to have dealt a major blow to the local unit. The rand traded at R13.46/$ on Friday, down 0.71% from its New York close on Thursday. It further weakened more than 1.5% to R13.60/$ in the session while government bonds also weakened.The yield on the benchmark bond maturing in 2026 rose 10 basis points to 8.86%. The rand was at R13.46 yesterday. Memories of the disastrous firing of former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene on December 11, 2015 are still fresh. The currency plunged to R18/$ and shares lost billions in value. The reaction has come off headlines that President Zuma told the ruling party s national executive committee that any ministers who defy him will be fired, ETM market analyst Ricardo Da Camara said after the rand s drop on Friday.On the stock market, the Top 40 index was down 0.75% to 46 146.76 while the broader all-share fell 0.81% to 52 973.83. Financial sector shares tumbled. Barclays Africa fell nearly 5% to R156 and FirstRand was down almost 4% to R50.40. Ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor s said last week infighting in the ANC could derail government efforts to improve policy implementation and that Pretoria had little room to increase spending .The country s sovereign credit rating could come under pressure if the country s economic growth and fiscal performance do not improve, the head of the sub-Saharan region of S&amp;P said. We have certain expectations with regard to GDP growth and certain expectations with regard to fiscal improvements. If there is no delivery in this regard, that could certainly put pressure on the rating, Konrad Reuss said. S&amp;P rates South Africa BBB-, one level above junk status, with a negative outlook.Both Zuma and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan have warned against loose talk that might paint a negative picture, scaring investors and hurting the rand. An added concern is that world markets are skittish after strong talk out of the White House and uncertainty over Brexit. Kevin Lings, chief economist at Stanlib, said although the rand is considered to still be undervalued, the extent of the undervaluation is much less pronounced now than at the start of 2016 . And while South Africa s trade balance is expected to continue to improve in 2017, helped by slightly higher commodity prices and subdued imports, the ongoing domestic political risks coupled with two or three hikes in the US interest rates could lead to some increase in foreign investors risk aversion towards emerging economies and as a result some modest rand weakness. South Africa also faces possible credit downgrades from Fitch and Moody s, and the Treasury has warned a downgrade to sub-investment grade could push borrowing costs higher, sink the currency and hurt already ailing growth.Early trade today will give a clear picture if such rumours are having a lasting effect, or if there are other factors affecting markets. with Reuters-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za