A COUNCILLOR in Rustenburg said she was shocked to discover that municipal police officers who allegedly assaulted her had opened a case against her. Jane Mpolokeng said she had gone to the police station to press charges of assault and the pointing of a firearm against four municipal police officers.However, it turned out the four had also opened a case of assault and crimen injuria against Mpolokeng.Both cases are now under police investigation.Mpolokeng said she was beaten up last week by the officers during a meeting with the municipal manager and 65 sacked temporary employees.She said that about 200 temporary employees were stopped from reporting for duty in March last year by the previous municipal manager, Victor Makona, who had promised to call them as soon as the municipality had acquired funds. In December we found out that 135 of them were called back to work and 65 were denied the opportunity because of their political affiliation. That is why we had a meeting with the current municipal manager, Gordon Molokoane, Mpolokeng said.She said the meeting was meant to resolve the matter amicably as it was obvious that it was a purge against those who did not belong to the ANC. The municipal manager excused himself for some minutes from the meeting, that is when we saw the municipal police with firearms and pepper spray enter. The minute I tried to find out what they wanted, they were all over me. They punched and slapped me without explaining themselves. The only time they talked was when I was down and one of them pressed a gun against my neck, telling me to shout for (Julius) Malema to help me as I am an EFF councillor,. Mpolokeng said she took the matter to the mayor who advised her to open a case with the police. I have opened a case of assault and the pointing of a firearm but to my surprise I discovered that a case of assault and crimen injuria was opened against me by the same officers. I am now recovering at home but I am expected to appear in court on February 9. Acting municipality spokesperson Andrew Seome said the municipality was not aware of the incident. That is a shocking scenario, but the municipality is not aware of that and we promise that we will investigate the matter you are asking us about, Seome said.