Cosatu President Sdumo Dlamini has slammed the emerging trend of senior ANC NEC members throwing their hats in the ring to lead the ruling party.In an interview with The New Age yesterday, Dlamini, while steering clear of mentioning the likes of ANC NEC members, Jeff Radebe and Baleka Mbete among others by name, for having availed themselves to lead the party, lashed out at ANC NEC members for double standards for publicly saying that the party should do away with slates, but clandestinely participate in talks punting them as candidates for the top six positions in the party. We don t need to say who those individuals are but it is wrong for people to throw their hats in the ring and say I m also available when the ANC has said lets move away from slate politics. It cannot be that when the NEC of the ANC says move away from slates to allow democratic processes in the structures of the movement and yet the same people who participate in those NEC meetings don t do that. It makes a mockery of the call. Dlamini s comments come against the background of succession fever having gripped the ANC. Gwede Mantashe on Monday described the practice of party leaders names appearing in slates for the ANC s December elective conference as short term happiness . Mantashe said that only ANC branches had the power to elect leaders.Dlamini, said that as an ANC NEC member himself, he was appalled by the conduct of other NEC members who were jostling for positions while the ANC had yet to open its succession debate. Let it start with the leadership of the ANC. They can t preach to the rest and not unto themselves. I know that the NEC has firmly emphasised that call. And Cosatu agrees with that call, it must be respected starting with the leadership of the ANC. People need to desist from participating in slate politics. Dlamini, making reference to Cosatu s expectations of how its members would participate in the activities of ANC branches in the preparations for the elective conference, said Cosatu members felt alienated during such processes. Workers who are members of the ANC have been the victims in ordinary activities of ANC branches. People would say here is Cosatu coming . They are excluded on processes because they belong to a Cosatu union, Dlamini reflected on Cosatu s participation in the ANC listening campaigns following the party s 2016 local government election defeat. He said that ANC members wanted the ruling to walk the talk on dealing with corruption. There s a distance between leaders and those that they lead. We are supposed to be running campaigns against the corruption but there s a lack of work on the ground. Comrades said the leadership says things at the top but they are not visible on the ground, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za