A scintillating 10 wicket haul by Kagiso Rabada led South Africa to a comfortable victory in the second Test against Sri Lanka and has the Proteas in a bullish mood ahead of the final Test in Johannesburg next week. The menacing Rabada took 4/33 in seven overs at Newlands yesterday to tear through Sri Lanka s batting order, with skipper Angelo Mathews and Dinesh Chandimal among his biggest casualties. The visitors lost the Test by 282 runs after being bowled out for 224 in their second innings, with Matthews top scoring with 49 runs. Such an annihilation and guaranteed series victory would have any team jubilant, but Proteas captain Faf du Plessis is not about to allow his team lose focus, urging them to produce an even better performance at the Wanderers to complete what would be a flawless series. We tried to dominate Sri Lanka and we have done that from day one until day four, Du Plessis said. We used every opportunity we had. We stepped up as a team and Sri Lanka were not in this game. Conditions do play a role. Even when we go to Sri Lanka, we have to adapt. The Test was played on a good surface and the team applied itself well. We did well in the two innings and were disciplined throughout. We needed to keep the game quiet and have a good run rate. Our attack was also good. We set our goal for this series, which was to win it well. I would like to make it a 3-0 series. I don t know if we will rest players. I will say no for now. We will play the best team to get that 3-0 lead. Dean Elgar and Quinton de Kock both scored centuries, while Vernon Philander and Keshav Maharaj chipped in with wickets yesterday, but it was Rabada who stole the show. The paceman finished with an innings return of 6/55 in 17 overs, the fifth occasion in which he has taken five or more Test wickets in an innings. His total of 10 wickets earned him the man of the match award but the reigning SA cricketer of the year revealed that it took him some time to get a rhythm going in the two innings. It is all the hard work paying off. A lot was invested in the game s plan and tactics. I was fighting to get the rhythm right in the first innings. It came right in the second. I wanted to get the top batsmen out. It says a lot about a bowler to achieve that. The Proteas will now prepare for the final Test in Centurion starting on Thursday. Mmasekepe Matsebane| mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za