Seven years after the untimely death of the world s biggest pop singer, Michael Jackson, Kimberleyborn entertainer and impersonator, Dantanio Goodman, emerged after a year-long search to fill the void left by the fallen king of pop.He looks, speaks, sings, dances, moves and ultimately feels so much like Jackson, that he has become the number one MJ impersonator in the world, leaving world audiences star struck through the MJ tribute show, history.Dantanio, who has toured the world, will be making his way to Johannesburg where he will dazzle MJ fans at Emperors Palace from Friday until February 19.His Joburg tour comes hot on the heels of a Cape Town tour at Artscape Theatre where he recently took music lovers on journey down memory lane of iconic Jackson classics accompanied by the revered MJ signature moves.Born into a musical family and having started mimicking his childhood idol from the age of six, Dantanio has not looked back since 2014 when the production team from Show Time Australia gave him a chance of a lifetime by adopting him as one of their stars, introducing him to local and international die-hard Jackson fans.It is hard to believe that what started as a hobby in front of a mirror then to the front porch at home and a chance performance at school has led to an international superstardom. My family was very musical. My grandfather played the organ/ piano, my mother sang in church and my father played guitar. Music was always around me growing up. One of the first songs I ever learned was Another Day In Paradise by Phil Collins. I was eight years old. But when I began seeing Michael Jackson on VHS, I was fascinated by his dance moves and his technical presentation. I would watch his dance moves frame by frame by rewinding, stopping and playing it back in slow motion. It took years of practice for me to master every single detail, Dantanio told The New Age.Backed by a full live band, HIStory is a production that continues to receive rave reviews from theatregoers across the globe who marvel at Dantanio s dance moves as much as they do his perfect Jackson-like vocal abilities. Fans find themselves questioning what they see right infront of their eyes because Dantanio is as real as the real MJ.Having toured the world, Dantanio says it feels good to be starting the year performing for local crowds. I consider Cape Town home. I am grateful to Showtime for allowing me this opportunity after countless rejections before being finally allowed to play Michael Jackson, he said.Dantanio still remembers the day his idol died in 2009 at the height of his local success as MJ in the Northern Cape. When Michael died part of me also died. I was at home and I remember feeling like my world had ended. I was amazed at how peoplen loved me like I was a Michael Jackson family member, the now worldfamous MJ impersonator said.SIYABONGA SITHOLE