Sibusiso Ngwenya, only 24-years old, has taken the tourism industry by storm.In 2010 when as a young grade 12 pupil from Barberton in Mpumalanga, Ngwenya started his company which serves as a tour operator, he did not know that the company would one day become a force to be reckoned with in the tourism industry.Ngwenya, who was born in Barberton, is the founder of the awards winning company Simeliza Tours. He said the awards have motivated him to work even harder.Ngwenya s company has won a number of tourism awards, including the Eteya Awards and the Lilizela award. I am happy because the company is now known internationally as I regularly deal with international clients. In short I can say the company is growing very first. Another thing that assist me to do well is the fact that I have a lot of experience in the tourism industry, Ngwenya said.In an exclusive interview with The New Age, Ngwenya said his passion in tourism started when he was doing grade 7, where he did his first tour.Recently, his company has employed six people and also offers some freelancing opportunities and in-service training to young people who have completed tourism-related studies.The company offers its services such as transporting tourists from airports to destinations such as the Kruger Park and other tourist attractions, to clients in Mpumalanga, SADC countries and all the other provinces of South Africa.He said being professional was vital in order to run a successful tourism business. All our tour guides are well-trained on how to professionally deal with tourists. We also make sure that all our freelancers are well-trained and have necessary qualifications .Ngwenya has urged local business people to empower the youth in order to eradicate poverty.He said small and big business owners should also consider outsourcing some services in order to create more job opportunities.He leads by example, saying his company only owns three vehicles while he hires other vehicles from local residents. We need to empower one another in order to grow the economy of the country and create more job opportunities. One of my dreams is to see this company employed more than 20 people in the next two years. I also called on South Africans to promote domestic tourism because if people visit our parks and other places of the same calibre the economy also grows, the businessman said.He, however, said that black business owners faced a difficult situation in the country because many people still believed that only a white person could offer a good service. This is a situation that black business owners are facing on a daily basis. You find that when people realise that the owner of a certain business is black, they start negotiating to get the service at a reduced price. Surprisingly if the owner of the business is white or if the clients realise that they are dealing with a big company they do not negotiate, he said.Despite running a successful business, after completing his grade 12, Ngwenya went to University of South Africa to complete his tourism-related studies which he said assisted him a lot to understand the tourism industry.He operates his business from his Barberton-based house and his regret is that his parents passed away before they could share in the spoils of his booming business.