Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa visited Mthatha in the Eastern Cape to celebrate the 105th birthday of the African National Congress yesterday.The deputy president said that the achievement of such a long history of the ANC was the result of the dedication, sacrifice and hard work of millions of people in South Africa and across the world who acted in unity.In his address he paid tribute to Oliver Reginald Tambo, the longest-serving president of the ANC who would have been 100 years old this year. The national executive committee of the ANC has therefore decided to dedicate this year his centenary to him. This is the year of Oliver Reginald Tambo. This is the year in which we celebrate his extraordinary life and supreme contribution to our freedom. This is the year in which we honour his memory by pledging to strive together, sparing neither strength nor courage, to achieve his vision of a free, democratic and united society, he said.The deputy president also quoted president Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela on OR: I say that Oliver Tambo has not died, because the ideals for which he sacrificed his life can never die. I say that Oliver Tambo has not died because the ideals of freedom, human dignity and a colour-blind respect for every individual cannot perish. While the ANC lives, Oliver Tambo cannot die! The people attending the anniversary were reminded that OR Tambo had been entrusted with the task of rebuilding a powerful instrument of national liberation and that he had understood that despite the difficulties of the moment, he was to be the glue that would bind the movement together. In 1980 on the 68th anniversary of the ANC Tambo spoke the following words: The need for the unity of the patriotic and democratic forces of our country has never been greater than it is today. Our unity has to be based on honesty among ourselves, the courage to face reality, adherence to what has been agreed upon, to principle. The vice-president said that in 2017 the ANC had to acknowledge that the need for the unity of the patriotic and democratic forces of our country had never been greater. For although we have made great progress since 1994 in improving the lives of our people, we have not yet overcome poverty, hunger, disease, unemployment, illiteracy and inequality. We have improved the lives of millions of our people. But we have not yet achieved the objective of a better life for all. We must be honest enough to recognise that disunity, mistrust, ideological incoherence and organisational weakness is undermining our ability to address the challenges that confront our people. Building the unity of the ANC and the Alliance is therefore the most important and urgent task of the moment, he said.Ramaphosa said often people were recruited to the ANC not to build the organisation, but to provide votes to one or other faction and that in 2017 an effort had to be made to correct the many mistakes, to end the deviant practices that are slowly destroying the organisation. We need to make the act of joining the ANC a more meaningful and valued process. Members of the ANC must feel on their shoulders the burden of responsibility. Like Oliver Tambo, they must understand that they have been entrusted with the future of the movement and with the successful prosecution of the struggle of our people. Each one of us must understand ourselves to be the glue that holds this organisation together, he said.This would be the year in which decisive progress had to be made in the growth and transformation of the economy. We know that we will not create the jobs our people seek unless we grow the economy. That is why we are intensifying our industrial incentive programmes, establishing special economic zones and investing in infrastructure. Here in the Eastern Cape, for example, these measures are contributing to the sustainability and expansion of the auto industry. They are resulting in significant new investments in the Coega Industrial Development Zone, he said.TNA Reporterprovinces@thenewage.co.za