Zamani Thwala was desperate he was blacklisted but needed cash.Attracted by one of those ubiquitous adverts, which in his case arrived via sms to his mobile phone, claiming to give blacklisted people a loan without a credit check he applied to Blue Financial Loans.Within hours, Thwala was delighted to find the loan was his, provided he sent them his ID and proof of residence and paid R1550. They wanted R1550 for the transfer then they gave me the banking details where I must put the money in, Thwala said. I borrowed the money because I knew that my money would be deposited in 48 hours. He waited with eager anticipation. Blue Financial Services then called him. They said there is a problem with their deposits so I must pay another R1550, Thwala said.Although he felt a little suspicious but not having heard about loan scams and as a first-time borrower, he complied.This was not the end, Blue Financial Services then demanded R2000 for insurance and another R850 for transfer costs. I paid this too! It was then that Blue Financial Services made a final demand for a further R1550 that Thwala demanded the loan be cancelled, but the lady on the line said this could only be paid back should he pay, yet another R1500.Angry and broke Thwala realised his folly and contacted ANN7, TNA s sister- TV station for help.This reporter tried to locate Blue Financial Services to try to get Thwala s money back, but found they no longer were at the premises they claimed on their documentation. We were told by a security guard that they had moved out in 2015 . But Blue Financial Services are far from closed down. We called them posing as a potential customer and they told this reporter that there was no problem for them to give us a R20000 loan even though we confessed to be blacklisted .Credit ombudsman Nicky Lala-Mohan warned consumers to avoid these loan companies as you could end up, like Thwala, R5 950 poorer. These people are giving you loans which no reputable lender would, Lala-Mohan said. When you are listed on the bureau it indicates you are a risk. If you go apply with a formal institution they have an obligation to look at the credit bureau or bureau record. If your record says you have adverse findings against your name the chances are that you will not be granted that loan, he said. This includes being in arrears for more than three months with any other account.If consumers go to informal loan companies they may also charge huge interest. So these people, knowing that you not going to get a loan in the formal environment, will grant you that loan with conditions and interest rates that will be illegal, they could charge you an interest rate higher than what is prescribed in the National Credit Act, he said.At times, he warned the ombudsman s office had found that consumers had taken out loans of R500 and ended up paying back R1000.He also said there was no recourse at the ombudsman s office although charges could be laid with the police. You can t come to our offices, if you take one of those loans, those aren t our members there s nothing we can do. Lala-Mohan said at times the loan companies resorted to illegal tactics. This includes harassment and violence. They could threaten to beat you up if you don t pay. Every credible loan company would belong to the National Credit Regulator (NCR) and have an NCR number, he said advising that people request proof of association. Those that require an up-front payment to grant a loan are normally a scam they take the money and you don t get the loan, that s how they make their money, Lala-Mohan warned. If they charge you an admin fee of R450 and they get 10 people they make R4500 for the day, once they take the fee they are gone. Judith Diakanyonews@thenewage.co.za