&nbsp;There is no end in sight to the contractual and potential ugly transfer dispute headlining local football as the war of words between Mamelodi Sundowns and the Keagan Dolly camp simmers.In yet another twist, Sundowns have hit back at Dolly s manager Paul Mitchell, who they have accused of lying and misrepresentation. Mitchell is embroiled in a legal battle with the PSL champions over Dolly s buyout clause, which is seen as a hindrance to his potential move abroad.Mitchell said Sundowns boss Patrice Motsepe was misinformed about the mistake in good faith the club made in the buyout clause of Dolly s contract.Dolly has been hankering for a move overseas, but the interested club are not willing to meet the transfer requirements set out by Sundowns. We are disappointed and concerned by the continuous lies and misrepresentation which is spread by Paul Mitchell, Keagan Dolly s agent, which makes any cooperation difficult, Sundowns said. Mamelodi Sundowns does not want to be seen as a club that can be blackmailed to sell players because of misrepresentations and pressure in the media. Mamelodi Sundowns remains committed, as stated by its president Patrice Motsepe, to immediately release Keagan Dolly to any club which complies with the buyout clause which was upheld by the PSL Dispute Resolution Chamber. There have been reported interests in the winger from Greek side Olympiakos and French team Montpellier, with the latter quite on keen the player. But Sundowns are not willing to fold and accommodate a club that wants to settle Dolly s transfer in instalments, an option Montpellier are understood to be seeking. Sundowns spokesperson Thulani Thuswa said the club is yet to receive any formal offer for Dolly. It s never final until it s written on the dotted line, Thuswa said. Inquiries that come via telephone calls are not official. What s official is what comes in writing and is signed. All parties then shake hands and the player goes where he is supposed to go.Fans shouldn t be worried about reports, Keagan is at home at Sundowns. He s knows how we do things here and we are hoping that when the right offer comes, where all three parties are happy, he goes overseas. Our stand point is quite clear on the right offer, the right release clause and the terms that we have dictated. Players must be bought at the right amount and terms. Players are not cars to be paid in instalments. We buy players for cash. We expect the same. Thuswa confirmed a letter received from English Premier League club Manchester City, who have also been monitoring Dolly, was authentic.KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA| kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za