INSTEAD of using the weather conditions as an excuse, the Proteas used it to their advantage as they defeated Sri Lanka by eight wickets in the first ODI in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. The conditions on Saturday seemed to suit Sri Lanka more than the Proteas, but after South Africa captain AB de Villiers won the toss and elected to field first, they bowled out the visitors for 181 on a slow wicket.It was windy on the day with the pitch unplayable, but De Villiers believes that worked to their advantage even though the conditions were similar to what Sri Lanka are used to back home. It was an impressive bowling performance, there is no doubt about that. It is something we touched on before we went out to play, De Villiers said. I alluded to the weather conditions, the strong winds that we don t use it as an excuse rather use it to our advantage, which I thought we did. We used it well at times and it paid off in the end. Having played in similar conditions in Sri Lanka before, De Villiers said he used the experience he gained there well and that it paid off for his side. The conditions reminded me of a Sri Lanka pitch that we played on not so long ago, so we had to adapt well in the beginning. I was quite worried that their spinners were going to play a big role in the second half of the game, so we had to bowl them out for less than 250 in order to stay in the game. I thought we adapted very well, the new bowlers asked the right questions and obviously Imran Tahir opened it up very nicely for everyone to have a fantastic fielding session. The game I played in Sri Lanka, the deciding one, was actually worse than this. I definitely used some of the experience on the field, some of my placing, the plans for the bowlers and it is always nice to draw back on that and use it now that I am so much older. De Villiers was also pleased with Tahir s performance after he finished with the figures of 3/26. Immi is probably in the best form that I have ever seen right now. He doesn t bowl bad balls any more. He always used to take wickets but I think you just don t see bad balls at the moment, which makes him really difficult to play. It s one thing with him picking up wickets but at the moment he is keeping the runs down as well.He is a great guy to have on our team, he plays with a lot of passion and I can t come up with enough good things to say about him, I m very proud at the moment. The Proteas will look to continue their dominance when they meet Sri Lanka at Sahara Park in Durban in the second ODI on Wednesday.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza