Kaizer Chiefs are set to come to the rescue of embattled striker Edward Manqele by settling the debt he owes former agent Josiah Mphono.The agent disclosed that he took Manqele to court after the striker played hide and seek with him over an undisclosed amount due to him after he facilitated Manqele s transfer from Chippa United to Chiefs last season behind Mphono s back. Mphono initially took the 29-yearold former Free State Stars, Mamelodi Sundowns and Moroka Swallows marksman to the PSL s Dispute Resolution Chamber for breach of contract. At the time of Manqele s move, Mphono claimed he had a binding contract with the striker, hence he sought compensation. The two parties seemed to have reached an agreement after Manqele promised to pay in two instalments. But Mphono alleged the forward only paid half the amount he owed him. The second and final payment was due in July but Manqele failed to pay. Mphono was left with no choice but to approach the courts, which granted an order that he be paid. Chiefs, however, have committed to intervene. The court ruled in my favour and ordered that Manqele pay my remaining balance, Mphono said. I can confirm that Chiefs undertook to settle the debt on his behalf and have their own arrangement how they will sort each other out. In another dispute involving Chiefs, Siboniso Gaxa s agent Glyn Binkin said they were anxiously waiting to hear from the Safa appeals committee regarding the date for their case. Gaxa s representatives are appealing the chamber s verdict, which ruled in Chiefs s favour after the defender challenged his dismissal in June. The Naturena side initially announced on their Twitter account that Gaxa had extended his stay for two years, only for them to somersault months later. There s nothing new but we are awaiting the date from the appeals committee, Binkin said. All I will say is what I have always maintained and that is that in the end the truth will prevail. Gaxa, who has since moved to Bidvest Wits, said he was heartbroken by Chiefs decision to let him go and he was looking forward to fight for justice. Linda Ximba|sports@thenewage.co.za