President of Blind Cricket SA and global development director of the World Blind Cricket Council Armand Bam says that the participation of the Blind Proteas in the T20 Blind Cricket World Cup in India will have a positive impact in the lives of blind people. &nbsp;The tournament will start on January the 28th and conclude on the 28th of February 2017, The visually impaired cricketers have been selected based on their performance at the last Blind Cricket world Cup in Cape Town in 2014. &nbsp;&#8220;Lives are changed. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be chosen to represent one s country and we have every confidence that TEAM SA will make South Africa proud. We urge South Africa to get behind this team and to give them both moral and financial support,&#8221; Bam said &nbsp;The team with players who are totally blind and are partially sighted will be managed Philip Bam a blind cricket administrator and comprises of 3 players from Central Gauteng, 4 northern Gauteng a single player from KwaZulu Natal and Boland respectively 2 from the Free State and six from the Western Cape. &nbsp;Coached by Francios Neethling assisted by Alricht Schwarts, captaining the team will be by Sonwabile Badla with Johan Schroeder as the sides vice captain. &nbsp; Participating in this tournament will be a tremendous confidence booster to visually impaired players from disadvantaged backgrounds and BCSA is extremely honoured to offer this opportunity to blind and visually impaired athletes who would otherwise not have such an opportunity. &nbsp;We acknowledge the financial support of Cricket South Africa (CSA), without which it would not have been possible to participate, Blind Cricket South Africa in a statement. &nbsp;-Rules of Blind Cricket- &nbsp;Although the standard rules apply to blind cricket there area few modifications registered players are either blind or partially blind .Of the 11 on the field four are required to be totally blind. based on categories B1 being totally blind till partial blindness which is B4. &nbsp;The pitch is made of concrete and measure a similar length and width used for sighted players. Boundaries are measured 40 meters in a circle around the pitch and demonstrated by a white line with flags set at intervals. The most noticeable change in the playing equipment is the ball which is larger and fitted with ball bearings. This allows partially sighted players to see and the bearings make it possible for the batsman to hear the ball. &nbsp;The stumps is also larger than in sighted cricket enabling partially sighted batmen the ability to see and the totally blind to touch so that they can navigate themselves around when either batting or bowling. &nbsp;The players as well as umpires use a lot of verbal signals, for an example a bowler would shout play as he releases the ball. Sometimes the delivery happens twice when the batsman is completely blind. Totally blind batsmen cannot be stumped out and must be found to be Leg before wicket (LBW) twice before going out,and when they field they are allowed to take a catch on the bounce. TNA Reporter