HUNDREDS of people who were set to travel long distances by taxis and buses from various towns in the southern Cape over the festive season feared for their lives on the road so much that they started regular prayer services at the bus and taxi ranks because they believed only prayer could protect them from horrific road accidents.Between December 1 last year and January 5, 278 people have reportedly died on the roads in the Eastern Cape.And every week, the area reports some of the most horrific accidents. Ready for the holiday, with loads of luggage, among them fridges, couches and kitchen tables, neatly wrapped with plastic and tightened with ropes in trailers, the roads around the Eastern Cape were choc-a-bloc with traffic and overloaded vehicles.At the Knysna taxi rank, a group of children and adults stood together holding hands for 15 minutes for a brief prayer service for guidance and protection on the busy roads as they visited their families this festive season.Each day the holidaymakers began the service with church hymns and later the group would start praying in unison asking God to guide and protect them from all evils and accidents.At the George railway station, one of the travellers, Nondumiso Rali 36, said the short prayer was highly suitable before setting off on a journey. Our fears remained the same even though we were going to different places and coming from different places of worship, Rali said. The fact is, we have a common problem, the fear of the accidents on the roads and we believe dthat we could overcome this by praying together. We asked the Lord to bless the journey which we were about to undertake. We have seen a lot of accidents over the holidays, people died before they reached their homes and this brought fears to travellers. You never know when is it going to happen, prayer is the only weapon. Joseph February, who works at sea in George but was travelling to the Kimberley in the Northern Cape, said: We were people from various denominations and met there but we had one thing in common: taking the long journey home. It doesn t matter where you are going, what matters is your safety. We don t wish to see people dying on the roads. People had families to look after, prayer was our only hope, road accidents were scaring every one of us. We were hoping all people driving on the road during the holidays would remember one thing: that they are never alone on the road, many families were driving on the same road. We were hoping they would think about them too. We all wanted to reach our destination in peace and spend peaceful moments with our families. In Mossel Bay, a 45-year-old bus driver who ferries commuters to the Eastern Cape, said: Yes, the roads are busy and the volume of people going home is high at Christmas. It s a busy period of the year, even we bus drivers are scared of that time of the year but we have to work and transport people. It s good that they prayed because they prayed for everyone on the road that time of the year. Meanwhile, police and traffic officials manned all the national roads for zero tolerance to drivers in all the towns in the southern region.In Oudsthoorn, traffic officers monitored the N1 route to Beaufort West including the N2 George and Mosselbay highway to Cape Town.Recently Roads and Transport Minister Dipuo Peters warned road offenders of zero tolerance with increased law enforcement during the festive season.-MPUMI KIVA