Thousands of qualifying National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) students will be exempt from paying registration fees this year. Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande made the announcement at a post-school education and training briefing in Pretoria yesterday.Nzimande said NSFAS supported more than 450000 poor undergraduate students with loans and bursaries worth R14bn to access universities and technical and vocational education and training colleges. NSFAS will be funding 205000 first time entering and continuing eligible students at universities and 200000 students at TVET colleges in 2017, by providing student loans and bursaries totalling R15.2bn, Nzimande said. He said NSFAS had put aside R76.6m in the 2017 academic year to provide funding to disabled students at universities. During 2017, the Ikusasa Student Financial Aid Programme model, which is aimed at assisting the missing middle, will be piloted at six universities and one TVET college. The pilot will fund the studies of about 1 500 students studying a number of general formative degrees as well as seven professional qualifications and one artisan qualification for the duration of their studies, Nzimande said.He said the government had also made a number of interventions to assist students from poor and working class families. The government will pay the fee increase, capped at 8%, for all qualifying registered students with a gross combined family income up to R600000 per annum in 2017. This is a grant which covers the increases for tuition fees and university or collegemanaged accommodation, and will not have to be repaid by qualifying students, he said. He said more than 75% of university and TVET college students would benefit from the grant. We have also gone further and made arrangements through NSFAS to pay the registration fees for all NSFAS funded students as an up front payment to universities and colleges in January. Therefore, NSFAS qualifying students will not pay any registration or up front fees in 2017, Nzimande said. Wits University s registration fee is R9340, University of Pretoria s up front payment costs R5000, at the University of Johannesburg it is R3870 and undergraduate students at the University of Stellenbosch have to pay R11 353 up front.Nzimande also said the state had addressed the issue of historical debt of NSFAS qualifying students. All NSFAS qualifying students who were registered in 2016, and were successful in their studies, but who have accumulated historical student debt with institutions of higher education, will be allowed to register in 2017, he said.-Batandwa Malingo|batandwam@thenewage. co.za 