&nbsp;DITSOBOTLA mayor Daniel Buthelezi has called on Grade 12 pupils in Coligny near Lichtenburg to study hard so that they change their life circumstances. He was speaking after visiting More High School and Reboneilwe Secondary School in Tlhabologang village. His visit was in line with a call from Premier Supra Mahumapelo to all stakeholders to motivate and inspire pupils, particularly those from poor backgrounds so that they find purpose in going to school. Buthelezi told the pupils that once they passed their matric examinations, they could be anything they wanted to be and help extricate their families from the clutches of poverty. You should also study hard for the pride of your background, he said. Remember that your performance reflects on your background, so aim high in everything and where possible, do what you have to do to perfection. Buthelezi further said morals and values should also be upheld for they often become a futile exercise to pass well but suffer on the social side, a weakness he said, that destroyed many promising talents. Put more effort in your studies but continue to keep portraying good morals by respecting your teachers, parents and the community at large. As leaders, we continue to give all the necessary support to our pupils so that they attain excellent results, he said. Pupils spoken to said they felt pumped up and would do their best to make sure they realised their dreams. Earlier this month Mahumapelo called on community members to go all out and encourage pupils, particularly those in Grade 12, as the province sought to perform its best this year. Mahumapelo and education and sports development MEC Sello Lehari met with principals and school governing body (SGB) leaders in Rustenburg to set the tone for this grand plan. All community leaders must be a good example to the pupils. All those who are specialists in various fields need to impart their skills by volunteering their time. This meeting with principals and SGBs will be an annual event from now on. We need to always look back and see where we can improve, Mahumapelo said. He bemoaned the disproportionate access to resources between black pupils and their white counterparts and said that needed to be addressed. Our people are confined to unemployment, inequality and poverty. Blacks and Africans were pushed to the periphery of the country during apartheid. And now they need to be capacitated in order to bring equality. We have to redress this and one key factor is to have parents taking part in their children s education because that is the best investment they can ever make, Mahumapelo said. Lehari said more attention would be directed towards underperforming schools with the aim to improve them. We also want to address the dropout of pupils. Of 80000 pupils who started school, only 35000 wrote their matric examinations. Principals must work together with SGBs and produce quality education, he said. The province came fourth in the 2016 matric results, a position the province occupied the previous year. Lehari said there was every reason to do well and upstage the Western Cape, Gauteng and Free State which formed this year s top three. ELFAS TORERAI&nbsp;