The position South African finds itself in 22 years into the birth of a new nation is truly remarkable, especially in the face of 400 years of domination and oppression. Through hard work and perseverance, we have all made South Africa a magical place of opportunity and a beacon of hope for the rest of the African continent.A day after April 27, 1994 Freedom Day South Africa went straight to work, buoyed by an ANC government which was determined in its pursuit of freedom. The ANC s dedication doubled once freedom was attained.For everywhere we looked, there was a lot of work to be done. What bound the ANC and the nation together was the abiding faith in the possibilities of a nation with a vision and a sense of shared destiny.The ANC, formed of the people, believed that in a tolerant nation, race, gender and ethnicity should not be a barrier to succeed in the attainment of ones goals and dreams. The ANC, formed of the people, believed that in a generous nation, you did not have to be rich to go to the best schools.The ANC, formed of the people, knew that we owe a debt to all the African heroes who sacrificed their lives to destroy a brutal system and to all those who have contributed to building a new nation. On January 8, we will be celebrating this remarkable heritage.January 8 is in many ways an ANC gathering to affirm the greatness of our nation. Not because 40% of our youth who remain unemployed will suddenly find work the following day.Not because the millions of families trapped in deprivation will suddenly be out of poverty, not because we will house and clothe and heal and feed all South Africans in need, but our greatness is enshrined in our Bill of Rights, that not only are we aware of our problems, but we have inscribed them in our Constitution, so that we can pursue them and give our people a life of dignity.In the past 20 years, we have put close to 8 million South Africans back to work, we can put 8 million more in half the time in the next phase. We say that boldly and confidently, if we stick to our commitments.Affirming our greatness also means being grateful of small miracles. The millions of our kids that are well fed, able to go to school, the freedom of speech, the freedom to start our own businesses, the ability to take part in the political process, choose which ever political party we so wish, without fear of retribution, are all small miracles we do not take for granted.Our country is therefore in a split-screen. On one side of the screen it s the country as we wish it to be and on the other it s our country as it is.The gap has been closing with each small act towards a more united and prosperous South Africa this is the progress we are proud of. At the 105th anniversary of the ANC, we are called to reevaluate our journey to measure ourselves against the standards we have set ourselves and see how we measure up to the legacy of OR Tambo and that of Madiba.There is a palpable reality that we have slipped from these lofty legacies. As a result we have more work to do.More work to do to create jobs for our people. More work to do to lift the standard of our hospitals and our schools, much more work to ensure a child with the grades, who has the drive, the dedication is able to go to any university without worrying about money.Our people know that the government will not solve all their problems, parents have to teach their kids how to learn, teachers must do their part with dedication, but the government must enable people and give them needed assistance to succeed.Our government has done this but much more work needs to be done and tough choices are needed to be made. We started this glorious burden of building a new nation by earning the respect of our people and the respect of the world. We dare never lose it.It s not enough for just some of us to prosper. The struggle of others, unemployment, poverty, homelessness, illness, must matter to us even if it s not our realities.South Africa is a nation at work and we must never grow weary in pursuing the greatness of our country. There are of course those whose sole duty is to divide us.Those who abuse their ownership, those who abuse their influence, the spin masters, the analysts, the biased journalists, the editors seeking vain glory from chambers of career applause, our message is clear to them. They will not succeed. Let us meet at Orlando Stadium on January 8 to affirm the greatness of our nation.Yonela DikoYonela Diko is the media liaison officer for the ANC Western Cape