The Proteas five-star performances in the recent three-match Test series against Sri Lanka have left in their wake a conundrum regarding former Test captain AB de Villiers.De Villiers, who has just recovered from an elbow injury that has troubled him for a while, is yet to decide if he will continue to play all three formats of the game, or if he will retire from Test cricket.Even if he decides to stick around, such a move would put selectors, coach Russel Domingo and captain Faf du Plessis in a difficult position regarding where to slot De Villiers in the future.As things stand, the Proteas top order of Stephen Cook, man of the series Dean Elgar and Hashim Amla have been doing well, making it difficult for De Villiers to find a place in the team.After some tough matches, JP Duminy finally found some form in the last series, managing more than 150 runs in the Proteas last innings.With captain Du Plessis also doing well, a big question arises about whether Temba Bavuma, who struggled in the series, will make way.As things stand, Domingo has refused to speak about whether De Villiers will return to the side but has reiterated his support for Bavuma. We hope to get him (De Villiers) into the third T20 match in Cape Town, Domingo said. Hopefully, we will get to sit down with him and he will tell us what his plans are and for him to plan his future. He will make that decision (of which format he wants to play) when he is available. I cannot make that decision for him. I don t think I can speak for him. AB has got to make the decision about whether he is available and the selectors have to make the decision whether he plays. He has obviously got to make some decision about his future in cricket. Bavuma s performance in the series does not worry me because even if we do well, there will always be one or two players who will struggle a bit. It is normal that one of our batters might struggle but that does not mean changes should be made. The 32-year-old De Villiers, who is the captain of the Proteas ODI team, has scored 21 Test centuries and averages more than 50 runs.But he has been out of the team that has won six of eight Tests while he was sidelined since mid-2016.Proteas Test captain Du Plessis, who is also a close friend of De Villiers, said he too did not know if De Villiers would continue to play the longest format of the game. I m not sure how AB will feel in terms of Test cricket. We will have to see, Du Plessis said. We are excited to have him back in the one-day team. I am hoping he decides to play (Tests) for us. He is obviously a world-class batter and I, as a captain, would love to have him as a leader in our team, and obviously as a batter. He is a fantastic player. MMASEKEPE MATSEBANEmmasekepem@thenewage.co.za