Your mindset is what drives you to be whatever you want to be, but folding your arms and blaming others without any action takes you nowhere.These are the words of entrepreneur Pitso Maleka.Soweto-born Maleka, who is in the Free State capital of Bloemfontein, is the founder and managing director of PM Grave Closure.The business that started in Gauteng in 2003 has grown in Bloemfontein as well and has spread across the province since January 2015.More than 1000 people are permanently employed in five provinces to close graves during funerals at weekends.Maleka said he hired 60 people in Bloemfontein, 40 in North West, 40 in Limpopo, 40 in Durban and Gauteng has the highest number with 900. Maleka, 40, said gone were the days when mourners had to fill in the graves of their loved ones in their suits in cemeteries. I wanted to become a businessman and I realised that many people start businesses and I wanted to do something different from the others, Maleka said. I decided to fill in graves after burials and it boomed in Gauteng. I then moved on to the other provinces. I am based in Bloemfontein, working at weekends and whenever there are funerals, Maleka said.He said when he arrived in Bloemfontein he started working with only 20 people and a year later the number has tripled. When I say your mindset is what drives you to your future, I mean that whatever you want to do is what drives you and if you are thinking positively, you will reach your goals. He said his business specialises in closing, locating and relocating, exhuming, maintenance and digging of graves as well as memorials for people who are unable to do this for themselves. Grave sites of relatives hold the memory of generations and unfortunately, in many cases, there is no one to support this memory. Our mission is to provide quality and friendly grave services that ensure the departed are buried with dignity and their final resting place is always presentable and treated with respect. He said in everything they do they strive to meet and exceed the expectations of the families and funeral service providers they serve. We are known in our community for our commitment to excellence in service personnel and products and we are committed to respect, trust, communication and accountability. He said he did not want to sit back and wait for the government to provide him with a job, instead he wanted to provide jobs for people. We are also changing people s lives. Forty families in Bloemfontein have changed so far and we plan to hire more people as the business grows across the beautiful Free State. To all youth, let us be creative to create employment, this is one of the best weapons to kill poverty. beckers@thenewage.co.za