Opposition party Congress of the People (COPE) has on Thursday weighed in on the ongoing ANC War room debacle saying that it was the ” first victim” of the alleged smear tactics. COPE spokesperson Dennis Bloem said that COPE was the first victim of the war room and the ANC spent millions of rands in dirty tricks against the party. ” The unethical and immoral ANC started its war room immediately after the formation of COPE. It was in full operation during the 2009 National Elections; COPE was the first victim of the war room and the ANC spent millions of rands in dirty tricks against COPE .” COPE spokesperson Dennis Bloem said in a statement. This comes after public relations agent Sihle Bolani among others made allegations that the ANC funded a clandestine communications campaign to undermine opposition parties’ election strategies to the tune of R50m. Bolani made the claims as part of a civil claim for R2.2m she claims is owed to her by the ANC for work done to influence voter sentiment during the 2016 local government elections. The ANC has refuted Bolani’s claims, on Wednesday while addressing the media in Irene on the first day of the ANC’s national executive committee lekgotla secretary-general Gwede Mantashe denied having any knowledge of general manager Ignatius Jacobs having dealings with the “war room” scandal. Mantashe said that while Jacobs reported to him on ANC operational matters, he had been unaware of the alleged activities. Bolani’s court application against the ANC to receive payment for her reported services was thrown out with costs, a development which the party said vindicated it. However COPE is amendment that the ANC employed the services of popular twitter users to dent the image of opposition parties in the run up to the elections. ” No amount of denials can convince the public that Shaka Sisulu and his other comrades were not involved in these immoral and unethical dirty tricks. Bolani has exposed all of them. ” said Bloem. For his part Shaka Sisulu has denied the allegations saying ” these reports are inherently false, exaggerated and no doubt intended to discredit, in part my reputation, and most significantly the name of the African National Congress” in a statement. -TNA Reporter