As unsuspecting students continue to fall prey to bogus colleges, the Department of Higher Education and Training has embarked on a week-long inspection campaign aimed at enforcing compliance and clamping down on unregistered colleges.The crackdown started in Braamfontein, in the Johannesburg CBD. Braamfontein is one of the hot spots for these colleges. To our surprise, the guys we found not complying last year are complying this year. We are pleased to know that the awareness has reached everyone, Dr Shaheeda Essack, director of private higher institutions at the department, said. Some bogus operators target students by using internet and it is a global fraud. We find bogus colleges both in big city centres and in rural towns, hidden from the department. She said the department had received several complaints about an illegal institution in Nelspruit.The institution had neither a physical address nor responded to calls on any of its listed contact numbers.She said bogus colleges typically requested payments for registration through a bank account number via WhatsApp and promised enrolment without matric certificates. The other one is in Pretoria and we are dealing with it, Essack said. There is one college also in Braamfontein and their case is with SAPS. She said the department had opened cases with the police to clamp down on the colleges. However, the department had encountered hurdles, with the courts not issuing harsh enough fines to deter the culprits. The fine is not strong enough but we are working with the NPA (National Prosecuting Authority) and Justice Department to ensure that there are harsher fines, Essack said. We know of two guys who served jail time and they are back in business. We have closed many of these colleges but in some cases investigations stalled as owners fled the country. But Essack said awareness campaigns were working. We are working with schools and we now have the taxi industry behind us, she said. From today we will be visiting taxi ranks because that is where most of these colleges advertise. Essack urged students to verify the credentials of private colleges with the department by contacting its call centre on 0800872222.Batandwa Malingobatandwam@thenewage.co.za