For centuries, there has always been a love-hate relationship between politics and music yet the two have remained largely inseparable.Politicians use music to draw crowds to rallies. They love it when musicians grace and endorse their campaigns.The 2016 elections in the United States showed artists taking sides, with some supporting the losing candidate, Hillary Clinton and others backing Donald Trump.This is equally true of the situation in South Africa and the North West province in particular, at least for the sake of this article.The power of music though can be used to vent at the excesses of the establishment or to rally people behind a certain cause.Sections of the population can coin music to voice out their grievances and raise issues they feel politicians neglect.This becomes protest music and it comes in various forms. It could be disparaging on those targeted, it can be nuanced but sometimes downright insulting.In the North West, there is a division of opinion on at least two songs doing the rounds on social media as to their acceptance and relevance.Composed by faceless people, at least for now, the songs are attributed to the North West Business Forum. They raise allegations that Premier Supra Mahumapelo is leading a corrupt administration and that he is enriching himself at the expense of everyone else.Ironically, at the time Mahumapelo took office, there were praise songs about him, attributed to some of the people thought to be behind the new tracks.The ANC in the province said the songs were an affront on its image and that of its provincial chairperson and Premier Supra Mahumapelo.As a result, the party wants its supporters to ignore the songs because they are a smear campaign on the provincial chairperson. ANC provincial secretary Dakota Legoete said: We are aware that the said songs are already being shared on WhatsApp and could have reached some of our members and supporters. Though the songs appear to originate from another province, we know that the work behind this is a joint effort with some in our province whose goal is to wreak havoc. We condemn their malicious aims in the strongest terms. This is not the first time that attempts have been made using music, to try and tarnish the image of our provincial chairperson. We in the ANC have been patient enough with such factional and divisive moves, but we have now reached a point where we need to take action, he said.Legoete said the party would take strong action, including suing those purveying the songs. We have defeated similar nefarious intentions in the past by keeping the ANC in Bokone Bophirima united and we are determined to continue on that path. We, however, believe that ignoring these instigators of all the negative things in the ANC is no longer an option.They sow division, cause havoc and enjoy the disorganisation that they create, which they don t even have the decency to fix because theirs is not about positive things, but destruction.Moreover, making unfounded and malicious allegations against anyone, regardless of their political status, is punishable by law as it amounts to defamation, he said.The provincial secretary said those feeding on the music were factionalists who wanted to destabilise the party. While the ANC is the first one to defend everyone s freedom to express themselves, it is also the ANC s duty to teach our people that the said freedom comes with responsibilities. As the leadership of the ANC in Bokone Bophirima we call upon members and supporters of our great movement to resist any attempts to be defocused by these factionalists. Let s all defend the ANC and its leaders as we continue working towards deepening unity and strengthening the ANC further, he said.ANC leagues have also come out strongly against the songs calling those behind them cowards and opportunists.Mahumapelo is a musician in his own right and he has produced a number of CDs that he donated to the ANC.But the North West Business Forum released a statement saying the two songs were just desserts for Mahumapelo. The North West Business Forum wishes to remind Mahumapelo that during the period leading up to the 2014 general elections, he commissioned derogatory and defamatory music CDs about the then outgoing Thandi Modise. In his desperate attempt to ascend to power by discrediting her, he also organised service delivery protests against Thandi s administration, forum spokesperson, Sello Mogodiri said.Mogodiri said that though the forum did not produce the songs, it supported the messages conveyed.He also castigated the response of the ANC and its structures to the songs saying the forum has the potential to cause more havoc to the party. In their respective responses to the trending songs, all Mahumapelo s cheerleaders seem to be achieving the opposite, and therefore making the songs more popular. They sought in their comments to chastise the North West Business Forum, calling it just a group of disgruntled former beneficiaries of tenders in the beleaguered province whose business shelf lives have expired .The astonishing and disappointing view about the forum is sure to cause their embattled principal more harm politically and otherwise, he said.Whether the two songs will be released as a CD remains to be seen but the debate reinforces the thin division between love and hate of political songs. Newsnote-ELFAS TORERAI