It s been an exciting start to the year for The Gambia, the smallest country in Africa.With just under 2 million people and barely wider than the river it straddles, it rarely features in the news.That changed on December 1, 2016. Incumbent president, Yahya Jammeh, lost the presidential election to opposition leader Adama Barrow.In less than a month, The Gambia experienced a will leave handover promise from Jammeh, a won t leave de facto coup against Barrow when Jammeh dug in following threats to have him tried at the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity, a political refugee crisis, a brief government-in-exile when elected President Barrow was inaugurated in Senegal and a national army that welcomed armed foreign troops with promises of tea.Jammeh sieged power in a coup in 1994. In the 22 years since, his administration has engaged in extrajudicial killings, torture, arbitrary detention and repressive media control.Last year Jammeh agreed to a popular election in which all eligible citizens could vote. The man who vowed to rule for a billion years lost in a democratic test of his reign. Initially, Jammeh conceded the election and announced he would step down.After the threat of being held to account for his offences, he reversed course. On December 10 Jammeh challenged the election results and petitioned the Supreme Court to call for a new election. A depleted National Assembly passed a resolution allowing him to remain while the court decided the case. Jammeh declared a 90-day state of emergency, to prevent a power vacuum and to prevent Barrow s inauguration.Barrow retreated to Senegal for his own safety.More than 45000 people fled the city for rural areas or crossed into neighbouring Senegal. Thousands of tourists were evacuated. Barrow called Jammeh s bluff. On January 19, Barrow was sworn in as president in Gambia s embassy in Senegal.When Jammeh refused to leave, armed troops from the 15-nation regional bloc, the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas) crossed the border, to be greeted by the cheers and a promise by Gambian army chief Ousman Badjie that his army would not in get involved in the political dispute. On January 20, after weeks of negotiations facilitated by Guinea s President Alpha Conde, Mauritania s President Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, and Senegal s President Macky Sall, Jammeh agreed to leave.The full departure deal is not known. Jammeh wanted amnesty from prosecution and to keep his assets.Jammeh was allowed to take his 13 luxury cars with him, and reportedly departed with about $11m (R150m) of state funds when he flew out on January 21, leaving the national coffers nearly empty.President Barrow returned to The Gambia on January 27 after receiving assurance of loyalty from the police and army. He asked Ecowas to remain for several weeks to ensure the safety of the population during the transition.The Gambia s sudden entry into the limelight has been lauded by some as an example of democracy triumphant and warning to African leaders who see themselves as permanent fixtures. Ecowas had stood up and put its foot down. Resolve that appears credible and is underpinned by an effective military instrument with the will to deploy it is a powerful combination, wrote The Times on January 20.But it is hardly an auspicious moment in a nation s history or indicative of democracy when an invading military force is necessary to oust a defeated president and install a dulyelected one.It is a travesty of good governance when a leader gets away with murder and departs with national assets. At least The Gambia has a chance to try again.President Barrow received a hero s welcome when he landed in Banjul bringing hope with him.Barrow promises to reverse Jammeh s attempts to withdraw from the International Criminal Court and to return Gambia to membership in the Commonwealth as a Commonwealth republic, undoing Jammeh s 2015 unconstitutional declaration of The Gambia to be an Islamic republic.Barrow must commence reconciliation and national building between ethnic groups and sufferers and perpetrators of Jammeh s atrocities.He needs to replace corrupt business practices with trustworthy standards. He must stimulate economic opportunities in a country where most people live on less that $2 a day.May we find next year that hard work and determination by Gambia s people and its elected officials are sustaining that hope for a better future with concrete progress.Tom WheelerTom Wheeler is an independent commentator and former diplomat