The Northern Cape police service has taken the initiative to make sure that the society gets educated about crime and how to survive around it.Provincial corporate communication s Lt Col Dimakatso Mooi said the police had a prevention unit that was present to educate the society on how to avoid and deal with criminal activities. We have a social crime prevention unit with primary focus to educate our community about crime and how it affect the society at large, as the scourge of crime does not discriminate and affects us all, Mooi saidEven though the Minister of Police Nkosinathi Nhleko had recorded a decrease of criminal activities in the province, the police services see a necessity of making sure that safety is also practiced at schools. A total of 24150 cases were reported in the province for the 2015-16 financial year. There is a project called school safety programme which is aimed at teaching pupils and scholars about the consequences of crime and also ensuring that the schools are safe and only used for learning, Mooi said.According to SA Police Service head of crime research and statistics Norman Sekhukhune crimes such as robbery, murder, attempted murder have decreased in three of the nine provinces in the country in the 2015-16 financial year.Sekhukhune said contact crimes have increased collectively in Gauteng, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, Northern Cape and the Western Cape. Contact crimes have decreased in three of the nine provinces include Eastern Cape, Free State and KZN. Whereas we have observed increases in Gauteng province, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, Northern Cape and the Western Cape. Murder has increased by 4.9% when we look at the provincial breakdown the only province that has managed to (decrease) this crime is the Northern Cape. The rest of the provinces have shown an increase, Sekhukhune said.Mooi said the Constitution had put the police service the responsiblity on to make sure that criminal activities in areas were dealt with accordingly. As the police we are mandated by the South African Constitution to prevent, combat and investigate crime, to maintain public order, to protect and secure South Africa s inhabitants and their property and to uphold and enforce the law, Mooi said.Mooi said that in the Northern Cape we are fulfilling this mandate by being more visible , that is having daily patrols, conducting stop and searches. Crime prevention, intelligence driven operations and ad hoc operations are also conducted from time to time. The police do not work in isolation in the fight against crime but also work together with other law enforcement agencies, the government stakeholders and community structures in order to combat crime in the province. CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za