Eastern Cape is in fourth place with a high rate of 9% of crime.Stock theft is one of the leading crimes that the Eastern Cape is known for, especially in Sulenkama, Qumbu, Bityi, Maluti, and Mthatha.There is a history of the Eastern Cape having challenges of police stations being short-staffed, with a lack of vehicles.Other stations have only one police van. Some community members have to travel about 40km to a police station to lay a complaint in areas such as Qumbu.There are not even satellites or mobile police stations to be closer to communities. Livestock theft is increasing every day and some people are losing confidence in the police.Community member and farmer Nobantu Manina from Mthatha in a Moyeni village, said as soon as she sees that some of her sheep are missing, she reports to the headman in the village if the men in the village do not succeed in finding the sheep, a case with the police is open and they take their time with investigations. The people who steal cattle are very advanced because they steal them in the early hours of the morning when people are sleeping, using trucks or bakkies to transport them. They then exchange them with people living far from where they were stolen, Manina said. In my case, boys from my village stole one sheep and ate it. Investigations took place and they were caught by the older men assigned by the headman of the village. Arrests were made. Manina said that this crime is very serious because the criminals go to the extent of stealing in places like Matatiyela because they are closer to the border of Lesotho to sell them there.Spokesperson for the provincial commissioner of police in the Eastern Cape, Brig Marinda Mills, said the reasons for stock theft in these areas is that they are rural areas and the people make a living from stock farming for their own subsistence. Factors that influence stock theft are a lack of compliance with the transporting of stock and the necessary paperwork and documentation is not completed. It is also because of stock that is not counted regularly, which results in big time delay from when the stolen stock is reported compared to when the crime took place, Mills said.She said this makes investigations very difficult and results in leads and evidence being stale or even disappearing. Mills said that stock is not branded properly, so it is difficult for owners and detectives to identify stolen stock and this affects legal implications.Herding and safeguarding (kraal) of stock often lacks, as stock often wander off and is sometimes reported stolen only to be recovered later.However, the Eastern Cape SAPS is assisting communities and stock theft units are continuously sharing education programmes to inform owners of these factors to assist in the prevention of stock theft.Meanwhile, sexual offences are also a crime category that is on a rise in the Eastern Cape.Mills said every incident of an alleged sexual offence committed is shocking and considered very serious. The SAPS has established family violence, child protection and sexual offences units in each of the 22 clusters in the province. There has been an increase in the reporting of such cases. There is awareness campaigns conducted in educating our communities, Mills said.She said that the courts have been handing down lengthy and life sentences for rape and that has encouraged victims to come forward.Furthermore, there is still more to be done in curbing these crimes as more than 80% of these cases are perpetrators known to the victims.Police are well aware that alcohol abuse plays a big part in the increase of this crime. Murders in the Eastern Cape are another crime concern that police are curbing for the sake of keeping communities safe. The impact of gangsterism in the northern areas of Port Elizabeth is reflected in the number of attempted murder and murder cases being investigated by the Gelvandale and Bethelsdorp police stations, Mills said. The results and positive impact of Operation Lock Down is evident, as concerted efforts have been made and successes achieved in the rooting out of this phenomenon. She said the operations held during 2016, resulted in the arrest of 565 people and the seizure of 85 firearms as well as more than 1 000 rounds of ammunition.provinces@thenewage.co.za