The South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) has said it is ready for the 2017 academic year and wants to ensure quality learning is prioritised in the province.Deputy general secretary Nkosana Dolopi visited four schools in the Kimberley area with a key focus on ensuring teaching and learning commenced on the very first day of school.Sadtu spokesperson Nomusa Cembi said the visit was part of the initiative by the union to keep in touch with teachers and parents at grass roots level.Dolopi yesterday visited Greenpoint, Dr EP Lekghela, Vuyolwethu and Rietvale high schools respectively.Cembi said they expect all teachers to be in class on time, prepared and professionally behaved. The department needs to provide the basic infrastructure and learning materials on time to enable the teachers to do their work, Cembi said.She urged parents to play their role by ensuring that they register their children in schools on time so that learning and teaching can start on the first day of school. The district offices must be able to provide the required quality curriculum and managerial infrastructure to support schools. Department officials must exhibit the required curriculum and managerial competence to act as professional education mentors. Meanwhile, provincial secretary Sipho Mayongo said the journey of 2017 had its own challenges and therefore requires commitment from all union members. We want to thank all the revolutionary stakeholders, which are pupils and parents, who are in the game for upliftment of quality public education, Mayongo said. To our members, despite all the name calling and mudslinging you proved your revolutionary professionalism by staying true to the course of quality learning and teaching campaign. Mayongo said Sadtu are recommitting themselves to the course with the support from the government and assistance throughout the entire schooling system.He further encouraged new teachers to put their profession first and before other needs. The new teacher must be committed to people, not to simply filling in forms, the new teacher must be committed to introducing new zest into our moribund education system. Mayongo said performance by schools was an evident indication of the hard work teachers and pupils have put in over the past year and is hopeful it will continue during the 2017 academic year. All our districts performed exceptionally well and in particular Namakwa district, which is one of the top performing areas in the country. He said if all members worked together, they could achieve their goals and make sure public schooling was put on the map.The union s office bearers also visited other provinces to encourage their members to go the extra mile.TIISETSO MANOKOtiisetsom@thenewage.co.za