The lawyer representing an elderly woman and her grandson who were accused of stealing and were tortured by the community of Malindini location in Mthatha says the family was let down by police. Ntombohlaba Gawulaekhaya, 58, was beaten, stripped naked and paraded in the streets while her 11-year-old grandson Yonke Gawulekhaya s genitals were squeezed by people who accused them of stealing money.After the assault, the attackers took their Sassa grant cards and Yonke s birth certificate.Thembeka Gawulekhaya, a daughter of Ntombohlaba, said she later took Yonke to the clinic where he was referred to hospital because he was urinating blood. The woman who accused Yonke of stealing the money took string and tied up his private parts. My mother was covered with a plastic bag over her head and face throughout the beating. She was beaten until she soiled herself, Thembeka said.Zibuzele Majeke, the owner of the money that was allegedly stolen, said they talked to the family and the family agreed to give them their Sassa cards as a means of paying back the money. We took the cards so that in January we can withdraw money as a means of payment, Majeke said.Majeke said that they went to the police to report the agreement and the police agreed that they should keep the Sassa cards.When The New Age contacted the police in Bityi where the case was opened, the police refused to comment and said they would only talk with the complainant. The New Age understands that there have been no arrests made since the incident took place in November 2016 and the family is still without their Sassa cards and ID documents.Spokesperson for the Department of Social Development Lumka Oliphant said beating anyone is a criminal offence. We will conduct an investigation, if the money has not been withdrawn we will release it as soon as possible. The Sassa cards belong to the government. Nobody is allowed to take a person s card unless the person was authorised by government, Oliphant said.The family s lawyer, Mkhululi Siyo, said Yonke only confessed to taking the money because he was being beaten by the community and wanted the beating to stop.Yonke denied that he had taken the money Siyo said. By now there should have been an arrest made, but police are delaying the case, Siyo said.INDIE BOYCEindiphileb@thenewage.co.za