A 35-YEAR-OLD woman will appear in the Grahamstown Magistrate s Court today after she was caught allegedly transporting dagga worth more than R79000. Police spokesperson Capt Mali Govender said the woman was arrested on Thursday night when the Grahamstown cluster task team stopped a long-distance bus on the N2 opposite the Settlers Monument. Two bags containing compressed dagga were found and traced to a 35-year-old female travelling from Durban en route to Riversdale. She was arrested for possession of dagga weighing 26.4kg and valued R79 200, Govender said. Meanwhile, an 18 year old has been arrested for shooting and killing a 17 year old in a gang related incident in Betheldorp on Saturday. According to the police, the teenager opened fire next to a supermarket where the deceased was standing with two other men aged 22 and 23. The two men were also shot and are still in hospital. The teenager was arrested at his house. He has been charged with murder and two counts of attempted murder. He will appear in court today. Police detectives in Mdantsane, East London also arrested 37 people for various crimes as part of their Operation Back to Basics. Police spokesperson Capt Nkosikho Mzuku said the operation started late on Thursday evening until early Friday morning. They were arrested in Mdantsane, Vulindlela, Inyibiba, Berlin, Cambridge, Komga, Mooiplaas, Kei Mouth and the Maclean town policing precincts for crimes ranging from murder, rape, assault with the intent to do grievously bodily harm, common assault, house breaking and theft, house robbery, stock theft, drunken driving, malicious damage to property, arson, domestic violence, the pointing of a firearm, to mention but a few, he said. Mdantsane cluster commander MajGen Henry Vos commended his members for a sterling job. I would like to give a special thanks to the members of the public for helping us with information that led to some of these arrests. We appeal to people to respect other people s rights by not doing crime. Thank you for your support, may our partnership grow from strength to strength, he said. The suspects will appear in different courts around the cluster soon. LONDEKA DLAMINI