A resident of Thohoyandou in Limpopo Zodwa Ngwenya has been battling for more than 8 months to find schools for her brother s children because they have no birth certificates.The children whose ages are between 5 and 6, were not attending any school and spent their days begging and sleeping on the streets with their parents before Ngwenya found them and brought them to her home. My brother disappeared for more than 20 years and when we found him, he had two children with him. They were begging on the streets for food together with the children. The children are undocumented, their parents are homeless, and I am failing to get help from home affairs due to the absent parents. The other child goes to school, as I asked them to take her in and I will be able to get papers next year but I have failed. Ngwenya said she feels hopeless as she could not get help from social development. Social Development told me they cannot assist as they want the mother s identity document and the mother doesn t want to go home to get her ID. Each time I mentioned that she told me she is not going back home nor does she want to contact them, Ngwenya said.Schooling is compulsory for all South Africans from the age of six until completion of grade nine and no law stops children from going to school, says Liesl Muller from Lawyers for Human Rights. The South African Schools Act of 1996 states that a child may be registered provisionally if a birth certificate is not immediately available and the parents must be given a reasonable time to submit them.Everyone has the right to a basic education, including adult basic education and to further education, which the state through reasonable measures, must make progressively available and accessible, in terms of section 29(1) of South Africa s Constitution, Muller said.She said that the matter had to be taken to the children s courts if the Department of Home Affairs and the Department of Social Development failed to help due to the parents none availability. This issue should be taken to the Children s Court and one should state that the parents of the children are not stable and are nowhere to be found, Muller said.Ngwenya said she has a family of nine, surviving with her husband s salary. It is tough for me since it s holidays as they are expecting a few things from me and they don t have clothes and every time I call my brother he is drunk. I thought of chasing the children back to the streets to be homeless like their parents, but I would feel guilty if I hear they died from hunger, Ngwenya said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANE