A blazing of fire still rages in Paarl while the wild inferno in Vredehoek has been contained.The fire in Paarl started on Monday afternoon resulting in massive operations to evacuate residents.However, a wine farm is reportedly one of several entities that has been affected by the raging fires.Community firefighter Daan van Leeuwen-Boomkamp described the situation as difficult. He said: The wind has picked up enormously. We have gale force winds which started on Monday afternoon. Western Cape traffic chief Kenny Africa said as a result of the continuing fires, the Du Toitskloof pass remained closed to traffic. We decided to close the pass last night due to huge mountain fires. The situation with regards to the fire remains unchanged, Africa said in a statement.In the Vredehoek and Oranjezicht areas firefighters have contained the blaze, at least for now, he said.He said the fires started on the lower slopes of Table Mountain on Monday evening and continue to be fuelled by the strong winds.City of Cape Town fire and rescue service official Theo Layne said: We try to contain the raging fires using three helicopters water-bombing facility. Two residential structures have been damaged and no injuries have been reported. The cause of the fire has not been determined at this stage. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics were on standby to contain the fires. ER24 paramedics, along with numerous medical and firefighting services have made their way to the scene. The fires were raging upon our arrival. At least two homes have been damaged as a result of the fire despite the fact that more than 100 firefighters had been marshalled to contain the blaze.Du Toitskloof pass is closed to traffic in both directions.He said at least one structure in the Paarl area had been gutted.An extensive cloud of brown smoke could be seen forming over the areas towards the northern suburbs of Cape Town.Residents have fled farms in the region, with their cars loaded with their belongings.It is unclear what caused the blaze.City and provincial emergency crews have had their hands full dealing with the outbreak of wildfires this year, according to Van Leewen-Boomkamp.Other areas affected by fires included Somerset West, Simon s Town, Tulbagh and Grabouw.The environmental affairs department said more than 1000 firefighters have helped to put out the fires.The extent of the problem has called for the province to solicit help from other provinces including firefighters mobilised from the Eastern Cape and the Free State.Tatenda Chiriserinews@thenewage.co.za