The South African pharmaceutical industry continues to weather the storm, with generics expected to make a mark in 2017 as originators have steadily lost market share since 2012 due to fierce competition, while the generic market boasted double digit growth.Erik Roos, chief executive of one of the fastest growing generic medicine companies in the country Pharma Dynamics, says as generic penetration intensifies, more growth in the sector can be expected in the coming year. Even though generic volume penetration will start to slow down, the 2 900 generic dossiers currently sitting at the Medical Control Council (MCC) awaiting registration will significantly boost generic growth in the next 12 to 18 months. The launch of the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA), the new regulatory authority set to take over from the MCC in April this year, will see products being fast-tracked and brought to market much sooner than before. Based on past industry figures, registering products with the MCC could take up to five years.Alleviating this backlog could see hundreds of new generic products flood the market, making newer generation molecules available to patients at a fraction of the cost. Since the introduction of generics in South Africa, medicine prices have been slashed by 80%, making them more affordable and accessible to the masses. Roos confidence in the generic sector is further motivated by the country s growing demand for medicines. The massive increase in demand is mainly driven by the country s ageing population of 42.09 million (65+), who are most likely to require chronic healthcare interventions. From 2005 to 2015 the size of the aged population almost doubled from 4.1% to 7.7%, and according to the World Health Organisation s World Report on Ageing and Health, this figure will rise to 10.06 million people by 2050. This, along with the various cost containment measures that are being employed by the government, should further increase generic prescription and substitution at pharmacy level, says Roos.The fact that patients are also increasingly being empowered to take a proactive role in maintaining good health has also spurred a surge in over-the-counter (OTC) medicine sales, particularly among schedule 2 products that are primarily a generics- dominated category. Unscheduled medicines, those that don t require a prescription, have experienced the fastest unit sales growth at 5% in the past year. The South African private pharmaceutical industry is expected to reach R47bn by 2020, increasing by 38% between 2016 and 2020.Roos says the strengthening of the currency in the first and second quarter of last year will go a long way in increasing the growth trajectory of the market, but he says the rand is likely to remain under pressure. This means consumers will have to pay a bit more for medicines since more than 70% of pharmaceutical products on the continent are imported. Governments around the world, particularly in developing countries are realising the long-term benefits of a healthy population by investing in healthcare infrastructure and systems, Roos said The Department of Health has bought into this concept and has already initiated a number of programmes to increase access to medicine, which includes a drive to enhance the production of local active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) production through the Ketlaphela project.This should see the price of anti-retrovirals and other essential medicines drop. Botswana, Cape Verde and Guinea Bissau are the only African countries growing between 41% and 50%. South Africa occupies the 19th spot among the 21 pharmerging countries.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za 