At least 45 people will lose their jobs after a number of unknown suspects killed three male lions and cut off their heads and paws at the Tzaneen Lion and Predator Park in Limpopo.Andre de Lange, the distraught owner of the park, said that the poachers came in at night, cut through three fences of the game farm and then fed the lions meat laced with poison. He said the culprits waited for the lions to die from the poisoned meat and then cut off their heads and paws. This has really affected my business in a bad way. I lost almost R1m so I am thinking of closing down because I don t have money to sustain the business and also pay salaries. There will now be 45 people sitting without jobs, he said. De Lange said the unknown perpetrators bypassed security and an alarm system. We think it might be an inside job but police are investigating and also asking everyone at the farm questions hopefully they will arrest the people who did this, he said. He said that he is now sitting with a problem because the same incident happened about seven months ago when two lions were poached and he lost R600 000. Now I just have to sell my property, it s really bad and I can t live like this. I have made calls for people to come buy the animals, De Lange said. Police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said that police have launched a manhunt for the suspects who were involved in this unlawful hunting of protected animals. An unknown number of suspects cut the fence and entered the lion cage at Letaba River Lodge outside Tzaneen and killed three male lions in the early hours of Wednesday morning, Ngoepe said. The police said the total value of the lion s legs, paws and heads was R900 000. He said that police were still investigating and called for anyone with information to contact the nearest police station. SPCA national inspector Aron de Klerk, said that they were concerned about the poaching and that animals were being poisoned and decapitated. The animals suffer from the poison before they die and this incident has happened before at the same facility, so clearly there is something wrong at the park, De Klerk said. DIKELEDI RAMABOPA | news@thenewage.co.za