No sooner had Mamelodi Sundowns lost their prized asset in Keagan Dolly, than reports emerged that they are set to lose playmaker Khama Billiat as well.The nippy Zimbabwean international had a fantastic season with Sundowns and was deservedly voted PSL footballer of the season and nearly won the Africa-based CAF player of the year award. Unconfirmed reports have it that a French Ligue 1 club have been keeping tabs on Billiat and are set to swoop on him.But insiders from the Sundowns camp said the move might not happen as the transfer window closes next Tuesday. Until we receive a formal letter from interested clubs, only then can we entertain such developments, Sundowns spokesperson Thulani Thuswa said. The club s president, Patrice Motsepe, has made it clear he will not stand in the way of players moving overseas, provided the financial terms are agreeable. I will go back to my club since I am still contracted and committed to them, then we can talk about my future. We can see what they say about my future and if there is a way forward, we can then decide, Billiat is quoted as saying by SuperSport.At Mayfair, there s confusion over whether Nkosinathi Mthiyane will leave Orlando Pirates and return to Chippa United. Weekend reports suggest Mthiyane is part of the swap deal that saw Chippa defenders James Okwuosa and Marc van Heerden move to Pirates.But Mthiyane s agent Abbie Rasimphi said: As far as I know, Mthiyane is a Pirates player.Nobody from Pirates has told us anything about him going anywhere. Meanwhile, Pirates neighbours at Naturena have had to grapple with questions over the future of defender Erick Tower Mathoho. Kaizer Chiefs are yet to engage him over a contract extension, with his deal expiring at the end of June, meaning he is allowed to talk to possible suitors.It is said big clubs in Gauteng are keenly monitoring the situation. In the NFD, promotion-chasing Royal Eagles have shown goalkeeper Philani Zikalala the door.The former Golden Arrows and Orlando Pirates shot stopper did not see much game time at the club. Eagles, who are lying second on the log behind pace setters Thanda Royal Zulu, parted ways with Zikalala last week.Zikalala has since turned to the SA Football Players Union for assistance as he still had five months left on his contract.&nbsp;LINDA XIMBA | news@thenewage.co.za