Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said it would take up to three years for the country to recover from the devastating drought.Mokonyane said there had been some good rain which had a slight positive impact on the water reserves but emphasised that this was too little for the country to recover from the impact of the drought. She said the rain was insufficient to allow for the relaxation of water restrictions imposed. We are witnessing slight increases in eight of the nine provinces, as earlier stated, this does not translate to any indication of a recovery from the drought, Mokonyane said. We only anticipate a full recovery in about three years time. Mokonyane yesterday held a MinMEC meeting with MECs responsible for cooperative governance in the nine provinces.She said her department felt it necessary to coordinate a formalised and coherent approach that would allow for national government and provinces to better manage the water resources of the country, roll-out water and sanitation services and improve planning and financial management. We appreciate that there has been some good rain that has had a slight impact on our water reserves and brought about some hope towards a recovery but we again emphasise that we are still firmly in a drought and have not recovered significantly to relax the restrictions to water use that we have implemented in a number of provinces. Currently, average dam levels across the country were at 58.9% up by 2.1%. This is of the 211 dams we monitor as a department, she said. Gauteng dams had improved significantly with levels rising to 87.1% while the Western Cape remained low with dam levels at just 41.4%Mokonyane said there were still serious water challenges in several towns especially in KwaZulu-Natal such as Greytown, Vryheid, Ugu areas, Eastern Cape Butterworth and other provinces that were running on very low water supplies. We are working on creating interventions and considering a number of solutions such as desalination plants for our coastal towns similar to those we commissioned to save Richards Bay. Our message as the MinMEC is to encourage citizens to continue using water sparingly and responsibly and to adhere to the restrictions where they may be in place, she said.Mokonyane said the meeting had agreed to produce an integrated implementation plan by June.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za