Police officers who go the extra mile in their daily operations were rewarded for their efforts during the National Excellence Awards at the Sun City Superbowl near Rustenburg on Friday.Acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane said the awards were a true reflection of police officers discipline and dedication to serve society. We are here to celebrate and applaud our police officers who went beyond the call of duty, Phahlane said. We have SADC (Southern African Development Community) representatives in our midst to celebrate our fourth annual National Excellence Awards. We recognise those who worked hard during the year. We recognise the significant efforts among all ranks, race and colour. The police assist our government to achieve its National Development Plan 2030. They ensure that our people are safe and they will continue to do so. Phahlane said the awards came while officers were celebrating National Police Day. We celebrated National Police Day in Ikageng location, Rustenburg, he said. The celebration was through the work done by CPFs (community policing forums), the police and other stakeholders. We want to thank our police officials from the bottom of our hearts, because without them it would have been impossible to achieve our mandate. Police paid the highest price by serving the communities. They have dedicated and sacrificed their lives. We need to support them and ensure that they form part of the society. We continue to lose many police officers in the line of duty because of barbaric killings. Deputy Minister of Police Makhotso Maggie Sotyu said: Without police officers, Batho Pele (people first) will only remain abstract, mysterious and hollow words. The employees and the public are key protagonists in ensuring that quality services are rendered to our communities. We must not neglect the needs of the internal client, the employee. We must always note that a well-managed organisation commits time and resources to issues of monitoring and evaluating the organisation s performance internally and externally. We are committing resources to evaluate our members performance and award them accordingly for going beyond the call of their duties and surpassing the citizens expectations when delivering public services, she said.Sotyu said they recognised and celebrated police officers achievements regardless of whether or not they were wearing uniforms and to remind them why they should always take pride in being South African civil servants.Some of police officers were promoted to higher ranks for their hard work.Severiano Blundin from the Port Elizabeth flying squad was one of the promoted police officers.Blundin said he was grateful for his promotion from constable to sergeant.Blundin had arrested a man who was found with drugs worth R3m while on patrol. The suspect offered a R150000 bribe to Blundin for his freedom but the police officer refused and arrested the suspect. I am happy to be recognised today, Blundin said. Police are a blessing to the people of South Africa. We managed to decrease contact crimes and other serious crimes during the festive season. The SAPS arrested 83000 people and conducted 2.4 million searches, seizing 1400 firearms during the festive season. We are looking forward to this year and facing challenges head-on. We have the Back to Basics policy and we will investigate each crime fanatically. We need to tackle criminals robustly. Brits police station scooped the best police station award. We highly appreciate the award and recognition. We came across many challenges. However, we will continue to work hard in combating crime, station commander Brig Ellen Lettie Emmanuel said.North West Det Julius Nkgoeng was awarded with the detective employee of the year (level 5-7) accolade. As a devoted detective of Letlhabile SAPS, I have secured seven sentences for seven different cases in the 2015-16 financial year, Nkgoeng said. I am dedicated to my work and I always ensure that perpetrators of crime are not only brought to book but receive long sentences. OBAKENG MAJEobakeng@thenewage.co.za