Paul O Sullivan sat on the bed in the main bedroom. He had picked up a single box of papers in a room that had chits, receipts, newspapers and notes piled high on the bedside tables, spilling from every surface and covering the floor. If I can t get them on drugs, I will get this guy on tax evasion, he said, undaunted that his grand plan to bring down a major, known drug dealer in the Turffontein area had failed. The plan had been hatched the first time I met O Sullivan about two or three weeks earlier on a night out with him and other police reservists in the area.The aim was to show this new journalist (at the time, sometime in 1994, I was a reporter for a local free sheet the Southern Courier) the problems with crime at the Booysen police station precinct. O Sullivan had his own car and on introduction had invited me to take the front seat. He opened the window and placed a blue light on his car roof.He then moved quickly from the police station into the Booysens area. In Rosettenville we stopped at the home of a local informer who was also a prostitute. She provided me with details of her life, loves and clients until the phone rang. She apologised as she let us out: My client is on his way. Then onto the streets of Rosettenville where outside the local hotel and along Prairie Street, scantily dressed sex workers were out looking for customers.As we drove slowly down the street, they moved hopefully towards the windows of the unmarked cars. I cannot remember much about the conversation in the car, but I do remember the police harassing the women, telling them to move, on, go home . It was around midnight when O Sullivan parked his car about a block away from the home of a famous drug dealer in the neighbouring suburb of Turffontein.The drug dealer, who I will simply call Alfie N, sold Mandrax tablets for, if I recall correctly, R20 each. We had switched off our lights and waited but not for long. Our quarry arrived. O Sullivan jumped into action and chased the young man down. Despite the man dropping his Mandrax tablet he was arrested and placed in the back of a police van.The young man and I met again later in the police station where he was booked. I met this young man for the third time on the night of the raid on Alfie s home. About 10, mostly young cops, were briefed by O Sullivan. The young drug addict, with promises of immunity from prosecution, was given a marked R20 note. He was to walk to the tuck shop in front of Alfie s home and buy a Mandrax tablet.All this the young man did a couple of hours later in full sight of the police hiding in various places close to the drug dealer s house. Once the deal was done, O Sullivan used a stick of dynamite to blow down Alfie s front door. The marked note was retrieved and bagged and the search for drugs began. There were none in the tuck shop or, at least, none that the police could find.Inside the house, the elusive stash evaded the diligent police mainly because the house was a chaotic mess of papers, clothes, furniture, looking like a candidate for the reality TV show Hoarders. Even a border collie brought in to sniff out the drugs failed to uncover anything illegal. That s how I ended up sitting on the bed with O Sullivan. Undaunted by failure this self-styled forensic investigator recalled Al Capone.Like the US s most infamous Mafiosa, who was brought down by an IRS special investigation unit for tax evasion, O Sullivan would use this to ensure Alfie did his time. As far as I know, O Sullivan the man who famously claims to have brought down Jackie Selebi and Radovan Krejcir did not succeed. Alfie finally left drug dealing after getting into trouble with some Nigerian drug lords.He left town. O Sullivan is still in town. He has set his sights on his second police chief and, if his Joining The Dots document is to be believed, he also has his sights on so many more. * All quotes from memory-Celia Russell|ceciliar@ann7.com 