Last year I attended an ANC press conference in Parliament as part of keeping my provincial hand on the pulse. After the conference I was a little bothered by how lacklustre the conference had been and I decided to pull aside a few of my journalist friends for a brief conversation. You guys are too soft on the ANC, I opened our conversation, to puzzled stares from journalists who have gotten used to different kinds of accusations. Of the 15 questions asked here, only one really pushed the ANC. I charged on with my journalistic rebuke. The media are not a platform for politicians to rant and when they do, call them up on the rants. Your inability to ask the hard questions is the reason why every Tom Dick and Harry is calling for press conferences these days, I continued. You have as a result lowered the journalistic standards. It is here that I seemed to hit the nail on the head and my journalists friends began to mumble and give me that uneasy smile. I sensed, though, that they felt I was telling the truth. Look at Julius Malema. He calls press conferences and rants about everything under the sun. You almost get confused what his press conferences are about. It should not take the courts to question Malema s rants on, say land grabs, while the media were there when he made those statements and simply laughed like they were in a comedy show.Ask the questions, ask the hard questions, push the politicians until those who mock the political landscape are ejected.Yes, the last BBC journalist to call Malema up on his rants, questioning how a man who lives in a R16m house in Sandton could claim to be the voice of the poor was harassed, called demeaning names and risked never to be called again to ANCYL conferences.But the ANC has its constitution and its values to protect and Malema trampled on too many of those so he effectively ejected himself out of the ANC family.One of the ANC constitutional and resolution commitments is the championing of the freedom of the press. The question of whether the media are independent or unbiased is as old as democracy itself. The question of whether media owners and their hand-picked editors are not being used by their political friends or their own ideological leanings to push certain narratives will forever be present with us. The role of the media in a democracy is an everlasting debate.None of these concerns however have ever been good enough to question that core democratic principle, freedom of the press.Over the past few years some ANC leaders have grown very frustrated with some media houses, accusing them of regime change agendas and an anti-ANC posture and downright wanting a black government to fail .These accusations do not represent the ANC constitution but are simply expressions of frustration by individuals who may, rightly or wrongly, feel a sense of unfair reporting on ANC matters.Here are the facts about the ANC. We believe that the media enrich democracy and stand as the greatest enabler for the project of democracy.We believe freedom of the press is sacrosanct and as long as it is protected, along with journalists and editors, there will always be hope for democracy. We believe no media should ever coddle the government, because nobody owns the government.As Amica Cabral said: Hide nothing from the masses of our people. Tell no lies. Expose lies whenever told. Mask no difficulties, mistakes, failures. Claim no easy victories. Always bear in mind the people are not fighting for ideas but for the things in anyone s head. They are fighting to win material benefits, to live better and in peace, to see their lives go forward, to guarantee their kids future. If the government is not providing services paid for by taxes, it must be exposed.It is irrational to then accuse the media of having a neo-liberal agenda when the rest of the country espouses neo-liberal values.Neo-liberalism in South Africa, however, represents something completely different to its US or European counterpart.Not only has it curiously only been white but it represented what is viewed as soft apartheid .South African neo-liberals participated in apartheid and would occasionally argue for a less cruel treatment of blacks, but neo-liberal leaders like Helen Suzman would be the first to argue that South African blacks were not developed enough to qualify for the one man one vote .South African neo-liberals therefore have always hypocritically sought black sympathy in order to legitimise white dominance.It s not unreasonable to think the Helen Suzman Foundation and others continue this work.Even progressive neo-liberals like Frederik Van Zyl Slabbert (a man I grew to like) historically saw black people as terrorists in their own land, at least until Slabbert led other neo-liberals to meet Mbeki and other ANC leaders in Dakar in the late 80s.Even when Slabbert later became Stellenbosch University chancellor, blacks in that university could still not count on him to make Stellenbosch less black hostile.So when Maimane can go around saying he is proudly neo-liberal I hope he is fully aware what South African neo-liberals have historically represented.This is why South Africa has always endorsed the ANC s aspirational national democratic revoltion by putting them in power lections after election despite an overwhelming neo-liberal world.The NDR is superior because it does not only make moral but economic sense too. Since then the NDR has lacked a global champion. So if the media, private sector and society are to espouse the NDR values, ANC leaders must set the highest possible example of leadership.If the press does not espouse NDR values, it is our fault and this in itself is not a reason for the ANC to not always champion freedom of the press. The ANC must always be that one source of protection that journalists and editors can count on for protection.We believe that the media enrich democracy, which is an incontrovertible truth.Yonela DikoYonela Diko is ANC Western Cape spokesperson