Premier Supra Mahumapelo warned that people who vandalise and destroy water infrastructure in Itsoseng township will face the full wrath of the law.Itsoseng falls under the Ditlobotla local municipality and the township has had numerous incidents of arson and other acts directed at damaging water infrastructure.The premier said that such action could not be condoned.Speaking briefly with media at the premier s coordinating committee meeting held on Tuesday at Mahikeng Cookes Lakes, the premier said those who continue to destroy water infrastructure in Itsoseng must face the full might of the law. The provincial government has noted with serious concern the destruction of water infrastructure taking place in Ditsobotla local municipality, particularly in Itsoseng, and there are serious allegations that some of the councillors are involved in these criminal actions. It cannot be allowed. The government is trying to deal with water challenges in the same area, while at the same time some people with criminal intentions continue to destroy water infrastructure for their own selfish reasons. Enough is enough. We are going to ensure that people are arrested, he said.The latest incident saw community members burning a water truck belonging to Sedibeng and Midvaal Water, which is temporarily providing water to the township.Community members justification for burning the truck was that the provision of water through tanks was delaying the completion of a permanent solution for the water supply.However, the premier said it was a criminal action for the community to burn any property in trying to resolve other challenges and that those who torched the truck must be arrested. I have instructed the MEC for transport management and community safety, Dr Mpho Motlhabane, to make sure that the police act in all instances of malicious damage to property, whether there are councillors or businesspeople behind the destruction of water infrastructure or not. We will get to the bottom of these actions. Nobody is going get away with criminal action at the expense of our people for selfish reasons and make matters worse in the process , he said.Mahumapelo expressed concern the mobilisation of communities to damage public properties. We are going to suggest to the national government to pass a law which will assist us in eradicating these barbaric actions. (Our proposal would regard) damage to infrastructures relating to water, electricity, sanitation, schools, halls and other government building as sabotage. The act will send a strong message that as soon as you damage government properties, it is a serious offence, and (it will be treated as such), the premier said.-ELFAS TORERAI