The leadership of Wanya Tsotsi has demanded that seven of their members arrested by the police be released and charges dropped.They were arrested after people they apprehended and took to the police laid criminal charges against them.The Wanya Tsotsi vigilante group was formed by people who said they had witnessed and experienced the high rate of criminal activities in Galeshewe township.They now say that their members are being crucified by the community they are trying to protect.Members of Wanya Tsotsi held a meeting with the community at the Flax arena in Galeshewe on Sunday to find a way forward and look at dealing with offenders and the charges brought against them.Chairperson of Wanya Tsoti Tebogo Obusitse said they would give Premier Sylvia Lucas and MEC for transport, safety and liaison Paulene Williams seven working days to address their concerns.Obusitse said all charges against members of Operation Wanya Tsotsi should be withdrawn or there should be some kind of intervention in the finalisa tion of these cases. Police officers are manufacturing charges against our members and this must come to an end now. Police officers who we suspect of harassing our members must also stop now and we want them to recognise our operation as a community crime fighting organisation, he said.Obusitse said they wanted to work permanently with the police so that cases were opened immediately after perpetrators had been found. What we ultimately want is for Wanya Tsotsi to work with the police and the justice department in the fight against crime. We have previously engaged with the MEC and the police commissioner but the police on the ground are sabotaging their plans. They are simply not implementing what the MEC has said. We have been asking for a van to accompany us during our operations but nothing transpired and it has become frustrating, he said.Last year, head of visible policing Col Hennie van Rensburg said the police were happy to work alongside Wanya Tsotsi in the fight against crime.This, however, according to Obusitse was not the case.Van Rensburg at the time, said that they still had to follow proper procedures when receiving the weapons. We will have to take fingerprints and as you can already see, some of the Wanya Tsotsi members have already put their fingerprints on weapons and we know that some of the weapons have been involved in heinous crimes, he said.Van Rensburg said it was not so easy to just arrest people who Wanya Tsotsi brought. Obusitse, however, said he saw it as an excuse and that the police did not want to work with them.The station commander of Witdam police station Brig Nomana Adonis said there was no way of protecting the Wanya Tsotsi group against criminals who opened cases against them but often asked members to identify each other. Adonis said it was quite unfortunate that the police did not have a database of the members of Wanya Tsotsi which often lead to their arrest as well.Adonis said they relied on a complainant for information. It is only after the leaders of Wanya Tsotsi identify that person as their member, then we release them, she said. Our plan for now is to incorporate Wanya Tsotsi into the community policing forum, so that they do not have to find themselves victims while trying to help the police, she said.While Wanya Tsotsi members wait for this to happen, many more of their members are arrested.A community member Boitumelo Babuseng said as long as the law does did not protect Wa-nya Tsotsi members, they will would continue to get arrested. Wanya Tsotsi must get the legislature to turn crime fighting operations into law so they can be recognised by the police. Until the law of the country changes, they will continue getting arrested, Babuseng said.Another community member who is also a former gang member Thuto Londeka said it was not enough for Wanya Tsotsi to beat up criminals and turn them into the police. There needs to be some kind of rehabilitation for these kids. You are not solving anything by beating them up, instead you are making them even more bitter and angry, he said. We want this group to develop and not only be a crime fighting group but an opportunity for the community to find help for the young boys, he said.A victim of crime Patrick Selwedi, 62, said he was kicked, beaten and stabbed by criminals back in 2014. Wanya Tsotsi appeared out of nowhere and after I told them what had happened, they found the perpetrator and my belongings. If this organisation is stopped, I only see crime going on the rise, he said.NOMUSA MVUBUprovinces@thenewage.co.za