Power utility Eskom has restored the electricity supply to parts of Mthatha, Mqanduli and Elliotdale following outages caused by severe thunderstorms on Monday. The few remaining customers will be connected back to the grid in due course. We thank our customers for their patience during this period, Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said.Residents of the affected areas in the Eastern Cape were this week picking up the pieces after strong winds, heavy rain and hail wreaked havoc, destroying their houses on Monday afternoon.The storms also damaged churches and schools. Roofs were ripped off, windows shattered and walls damaged by the big hailstones. Most people were not here when this happened, they were out celebrating the new year in various places. As neighbours we helped each other by providing accommodation for those in need, resident Thando Mcotheli said. Our appliances are wet and we are facing a danger where people try to connect their wet appliances and they just explode. I wish authorities come here to warn us and guide us through this. An elderly couple, Ndwesile and Nokwaka Mqibelo, together with their two grandchildren, aged 10 and 13, have nowhere to go and are unable to rebuild due to their age. We slept in one of the rooms that had a zinc roof, there is nothing we can do for now, any help will be welcomed, Ndwesile Mquibelo said.King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality spokesperson Sonwabo Mampoza said as soon as the municipality received a report of what had happened, disaster management teams were deployed to all affected areas. The team stopped when it was dark but went back in the morning to visit those areas. There s a lot of damage that has happened as houses, churches and schools were left without roofs, Mampoza said.He said the municipality took the incident seriously and would ensure that something is done for the affected families. We are making provision of temporary shelters to make sure that they and their belongings are safe. We are working together with other government departments to make sure that this does not interfere with the opening of the schools, Mampoza said.Houses in NU6, NU7 and NU9 were also damaged as the storm wreaked havoc across the township. It has also been reported that at least seven people were struck by lightning in a freak storm in the Mthatha area on the same day.The worst affected area was Payne location in Mthatha and in Mqanduli, south of Mthatha.TNA REPORTERprovinces@thenewage.co.za