The city has called for public participation in renaming Salazar Plain after unsung medical hero Hamilton Naki. The naming and nomination committee this morning discussed the proposal for the renaming of Salazar Plain in the foreshore after the late Dr Hamilton Naki, the laboratory assistant of cardiac surgeon Dr Christiaan Barnard.Following a discussion, the city s naming and nomination committee unanimously recommended to mayor Patricia de Lille, that the city undertake a public participation process for the renaming of Salazar Plain, between Rua Vasco da Gama and Rua Bartholomeu Dias, opposite the newly constructed Christiaan Barnard Hospital. Hamilton Naki was a healthcare scientist from Langa who was denied the opportunity of formal medical training due to the discriminating policies of the apartheid government. Naki assisted Dr Christiaan Barnard in his preparations to perform the world s first successful heart transplant in the Groote Schuur Hospital in 1967.Naki s involvement received very little, if any, acknowledgement at the time. This year marks the 50th anniversary of this historic moment, offering us the ideal opportunity to celebrate and honour the contribution that Naki made, Brett Herron, the chairperson of the city s naming and nomination committee, said.The proposal for the renaming of Salazar Plain was submitted by Netcare Limited, owners of the new hospital, and is supported by Naki s family who live in Khayelitsha. Naki was born to a poor family in the Transkei. He received education until the age of 14 and moved to Langa in Cape Town. Naki was a gardener at the medical facility when he was selected to work in the clinical laboratories.Despite his lack of formal medical education, Naki s technique and surgical skills convinced the superiors to allow him special permission to conduct research in the laboratories. Naki enlisted as Barnard s assistant upon the latter s return from the US and contributed to the development of transplant techniques.He was eventually allowed to operate and gave lectures to medical professors, training more than 3 000 future surgeons until his retirement in 1991 on a gardener s pension. Barnard once admitted to documentarian Dirk de Villiers that had Naki been given the chance, he could have been the surgeon to do the world s first heart transplant, Herron said. Naki received the National Order of Maphungubwe and an honorary degree in medicine after his retirement.He died on May 29, 2005, aged 78. The proposal conforms with the city s Naming Policy. Once mayor De Lille has approved this recommendation, the city s public participation unit will commence with the process of requesting comment and input from residents and interested and affected parties in the Cape Town central business district, Herron said.-TNA Reporter &nbsp;&nbsp;