The Free State government has announced former speaker of the legislature Ouma Tsopo will be granted an official provincial funeral.This was revealed by provincial government director-general Kopung Radikontsane yesterday.Tsopo died at the MediClinic in Welkom on Saturday night after a long illness. She will be buried on Saturday in Virginia at 2pm following a service starting at 8am at Harmony High School. The memorial service will be held on Wednesday (today) from 12 noon at the Phahamisang Primary School in Meloding township near Virginia, Radikontsane said.He described Tsopo as a strong woman who was also a pillar of strength within the government and the ruling ANC party.Tsopo s daughter Karabo Tsopo said they were still devastated by the death of their mother. She said her mother was admitted at the hospital on December 24. She stayed two days in a medical ward before she was transferred to the intensive care unit where she passed away. While visiting the babies born on the new year at Pelonomi Hospital in Bloemfontein, health MEC Butana Komphela said Tsopo had been ill for quite some time as she was suffering from diabetes but the cause of death was unknown. She was a hard worker and served the province with pride. May her soul rest in peace and to Qabathe we also sends our heartfelt condolences to the family, Komphela said.Speaking from Madeira in Portugal, human settlements MEC Sisi Ntombela described Tsopo as a woman who was a team player within the ANC.She said she succeeded Tsopo when she became social development MEC and appreciated the advice she gave her. She taught me a lot when I succeeded her, she was unselfish and advised me on how to continue with the good work she has done. She served the ANC with all her heart. Whenever she did not like something she used to mention it and wanted it to be solved immediately. We will always remember her as a workaholic, Ntombela said.DA legislature member Roy Jankielsohn also sent condolences to both Tsopo and Qabathe family. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family as they grieve their loss, our condolences also go out to her colleagues in the ANC. We would also like to extend our condolences to the Qabathe family and wish them all the strength during this most difficult time of bereavement, Jankielsohn said.Tsopo served as the ANC Women s League regional secretary in the Northern Free State and as a member of the executive council in the Free State provincial government where she held several portfolios since 1994 until her redeployment to the provincial legislature. She worked as the MEC for social development, health and education.beckers@thenewage.co.za