Roger de Sa is expected to be announced as the new Maritzburg United coach today.Sources close the club say the former Bidvest Wits and Orlando Pirates manager snatched the coveted job at the KZN Midlands side ahead of Polokwane City s Luc Eymael and ex-Pirates boss Ruud Krol United had been in the market for a new coach ever since German Ernst Middendorp resigned in a huff in late November last year.United chairman Farook Kadodia would only say that they had shortlisted coaches who would subscribe to their model of blending experience and youth. The future lies in development, Kadodia said. This season you saw young players coming through our streams, especially local players and we want to continue with that. That is why we are earmarking a coach with a philosophy that will promote young players from the junior ranks. That is why when we prepared a shortlist of coaches, we limited ourselves to coaches that we believe will subscribe to the development philosophy so that we have experienced players blending with youth. Kadodia said the club would give the new coach all the power on who to bring on board or release during the current transfer window. The future of veterans Bryce Moon and Abia Nale is bleak after the club s management allegedly expressed unhappiness at their contribution despite being among their best paid players. Maritzburg legend Fadlu Davids, who steered the ship to calmer waters when Middendorp departed, recently said he was not cut out for the head coaching position. The Capetonian said he wanted to concentrate on furthering his coaching studies for now. Eymael s link with Maritzburg came after it had emerged that his future at Polokwane City was uncertain. The Belgian s contract with Rise and Shine is set to expire at the end of the season. Eymael, who led unfancied City to a fifth spot finish on the log, has also attracted interest from Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs. Dutch legend Krol has long expressed a desire to return to SA after leading Pirates to a treble four seasons ago. He has zigzagged the African continent, securing coaching jobs in Tunisia, Libya and Morocco. LINDA XIMBA| sports@thenewage.co.za