The North West remains a powerhouse in terms of producing artists who are making great strides on the international arena.Last year alone, artists from Mahikeng won international accolades, putting South Africa and the province on the global map.On December 12, the province rolled out the red carpet to welcome Mr Heritage International 2016 Tshepiso Khumalo and Ms Heritage Teen South Africa, Botlhale Modise.The two arrived at the Mahikeng International Airport after a successful outing in Sri Lanka where Tshepiso won several awards.Born and bred in Setumo Park in Mahikeng, Khumalo has followed in the footsteps of many great sons and daughters of the province who have done exceptionally well in their artistic careers.Khumalo said in an interview that winning Mr Heritage International was a wonderful achievement in his life. I want to use this title to inspire other young people to express themselves in ways that unleash their full potential, Khumalo said.A few months ago, two dancers from Mahikeng were crowned world champions after performing in the US.Maya Phele, 5 and Chelsea Davids, 17, took part in the World Championships of performing art competition held in Los Angeles.Phele was crowned world grand junior champ while Davids won in the hip hop category.The ecstatic Maya said she was grateful to be a winner. I am very grateful for my win. I believe I will inspire other young dancers. I competed against other children from different countries and that brought hope. It was fun and I hope I will go back again. I began dancing because I love it. My mum always helped me to nurture my talent, Phele said.Choreographer Erin Mussan, who is also Maya Phele s mother, said it was important to nurture talent at an early age.She said even though some people may argue that art education is a luxury, creative activities were some of the building blocks of child development. Maya started to love dancing at a young age. Art can strengthen problem-solving and critical-thinking skills in a child. The experience of making decisions and choices in the course of creating art carries over into other parts of life. She competed provincially and nationally before she went globally. Maya is a bright kid and she is always willing to learn new things. She scooped a world grand junior champion award after emerging the winner against girls and boys in the same competition, she said.The 33-year-old choreographer commended the support she received from various stakeholders to make sure the trip to LA was possible. However, she urged the government and other stakeholders to take part in nurturing art within the province. We received unwavering support from various stakeholders to make the trip to LA realistic. However, I still want to ask the government to inject more cash and infrastructure at the grass roots level. I have been running this project with a shoe-string budget and many children are passionate. Without support and resources, we will not unearth as many talents as we wish. The responsibility of our children s development can weigh heavily on a parent s mind. However, we need to know that we are preparing them for the future, she said.Mussan also applauded Davids after she was crowned world champion in the hip hop genre. Davids also went to LA to compete against the world s best hip hop dancers at the same competition.She won a scholarship from Millennium Dance Complex.Davids could not hide her excitement. I participated in various sporting codes at school, but I have never developed a passion for that like I have for dance. When I dance, I feel free. Dancing is my way of telling my story and communicating with the world. My dancing portrays who I am. A lot of teenagers are engaged in drugs and alcohol abuse, however, dancing keeps me grounded and focused. It gives me that fighting spirit and I ve realised what I want for my future. However, it is a mammoth task to eliminate social life and non-creative elements in life, Davids said.She said she wanted to be a successful dancer and what she does now would reflect on her future later on.Davids further said even though she was passionate about hip hop and contemporary dance, she could also perform other genres. As a dancer, you should be versatile. One should open him/herself to other opportunities. We should be ready for any opportunities that may come our way. I am also excited after I received a scholarship especially from Millennium Dance Complex. We used to watch their music and dance videos on TV, now it is amazing to be part of them. It is a dream comes true because I am now able to go to that studio and learn from people I admired, she said.Erin Mussan said the achievements of the two dancers would inspire other children across the province.She further said as the landscape of music changed, the province needed to make sure that the children were ready to flourish. The inspiration must be drawn from these achievements. The aspiring dancers need to know that people like Millennium Dance Complex are not out of reach. I also inspire them to take their education very serious, she said.These and many other artists achievements give credence to those calling for further developments in places like Mahikeng so that most of the artists stay at home instead of moving to Johannesburg.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za