Yes, a breed of undateable men exists guys that women wouldn t even want their enemies to date. Read on&#8230;Some men have that natural charm and women tend to flock to them when given a chance. But there are some whom a woman would never want to be in proximity with. He s the guy who can be the reason behind a drastic change in moods. While you re wondering the kind of man you should hide from, here s our checklist of men you should avoid.1. Mr. Volatile One moment, everyone s eyeing this extra caring, super-hot boyfriend of yours while the next, he s just indifferent and you re left wondering WTH just happened. We won t call this man one with mood swings because that is acceptable, considering how often we PMS. But he s the kind of a man who is so volatile, you ll have all the answers, yet be clueless about his weird behaviour.2. The &#8216;I-me-myself&#8217; guy Go to a restaurant with him, he ll be kind enough to let you check the menu, but will choose what he wants. Talk to him over the phone, you ll find conversations start with how his day was and ends with the goals of his life. And while you re thinking of a beach destination for that annual relaxation holiday, you ll end up going to a desert just because he wants a camel ride. He s selfish. Stay with him to be unhappy for the rest of your life.3. The &#8216;Aww-I&#8217;m-just-a-kid&#8217; man This guy just hasn t grown up. He s so happy extending his childhood days that he will mistake you for his mommy. If you re willing to tie his shoelace, select clothes for that everyday outing of his, cook for him and feed him, among doing his other chores, we will say, go for him.4. The sleaze-ball He flirts with every woman on the planet his receptionist, the waitress, the woman who comes to take out garbage, the stranger at the super market and even your best friend. His history can make you uncomfortable and you just know he s not the kind who ll be serious with anyone. Avoid this man who s only about sex, sex and just sex, unless you re looking for someone to play with too.5. &#8216;I-need-you-so-much&#8217; fella This Mr Clingy is a total no-no to be with. He s so insecure and doubtful about things in life, all he s looking for is reassurance. And here s what he comes with: a truck full of emotions. Trust us, you wouldn t want to be a shoulder to this man, who goes sob, sniff, sob every single minute when he s with you.6. The predictable guy This one s as predictable as a bimonthly auto rickshaw fare hike in Delhi. You just know what he s thinking or is about to do. Yes, we re talking about (yawn) the guy who has just no surprises to offer you, because well, not only is he predictable, but he s way too boring, so much so that we know for certain you ll gauge him in just a month.This article first appeared on The Times of India