Multiple award-winning South African short film The Suit continues to impress film festival curators across the globe.The film which stars father and son, Dr John Kani as Mr Maphikela and Atandwa Kani as young lawyer Philemon has been selected for two ground-breaking Canadian film festivals.The film has been selected to be part of the official selection of the Toronto Black Film Festival.It was also chosen unanimously by the seven committee members of the Vancouver South African Film Festival. This comes hot on the heels of selected for the 25th Pan African Film Festival, set for Los Angeles from February 9 to 20.The festival s calendar kicks off on February 15 to 19. Tell Them We Are Rising multi-platform project by award-winning filmmaker Stanley Nelson will be the festival s opening film. The sixth Vancouver South African Film Festival takes place from March 31 to April 2, 2017 and presents shorts, features and documentaries which entertain and inform by exploring the culture, history and politics of South Africa.The festival is organised by volunteers and all proceeds go to the important work that Education Without Borders has been doing in South Africa since 2002. Speaking to The New Age via email, The Suit director, Jarryd Coetsee, said he was humbled by the reception his short film has been receiving from the rest of the world. All we wanted was for the film to be shared with audiences at a few festivals. It came as such a lovely and pleasant surprise that The Suit has resonated in Canada. It s a humbling experience and I m truly grateful for this wonderful recognition. The Suit is the first film adaptation of the classic South African short story by celebrated 1950s journalist and short story writer, Can Themba. In the past few months, the film has garnered a number of accolades locally and internationally.These include being crowned the winner of the short film competition at the Africa in Motion Scotland/African Film Festival in November 2016. Before then, it scooped the audience award at the Cape Town leg of the Shnit International Short Film Festival in October. In September the film made it to the official selection of the Oscar-qualifying Urbanworld Film Festival in New York in September.The film s director, Coetsee said he was humbled by the recognition the film had been receiving from international audiences and critics. I m delighted that The Suit has been selected, presenting us with the privilege to share this powerful story, about the devastating impact of oppression on personal relationships, with the largest gathering of the African diaspora on earth in a city renowned for its diversity, cosmopolitanism and freedom. The story remains as relevant today in many parts of the world where oppression is either blatant or insidious as when it was first published in the 1960s. Coetsee says as South Africa and the world celebrates 50 years since the passing of 1950s writer and Drum Magazine s journalist, Can Themba, it is important for the film to look back and celebrate his legacy.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za