THE ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in the eThekwini region, will next week hold a meeting with its branches in the region as part of the first phase of its campaign to get young people to break ties with Absa, which has been accused of illegally receiving a R2.25bn bailout from the apartheid government. We will be meeting all branch secretaries from the region where we will be articulating the regional leadership stance. We want all branches in the region to adopt the campaign again Absa and any other corrupt institution that has been looting government resources, ANCYL regional secretary, Thinta Cibane, said.This, after a preliminary public protector report into the looting of state funds during the apartheid era found that Absa was one of the companies that had benefited from the looting . The public protector s report is based on a 1997 investigation Ciex Report by British spies who had informed the democratic government that it stood a good chance of recovering billions of rands which were looted from government coffers during the apartheid era. We don t want our people to use the bank that steals from this country. We call upon young people considering banking with Absa in the immediate future to reconsider, at least for the time being, until this matter has been brought to its logical conclusion, he said.The probe was undertaken during the tenure of former public protector Thuli Madonsela, who left office without making the report public. Early this week, Madonsela told the Cape Town Press Club that an administrative error had prevented her from signing off on her provisional report. However, the ANCYL eThekwini region was not impressed with the former public protector s explanation. We wonder when advocate Madonsela prioritised her investigations, and whose interests she was serving, because it was definitely not those of the public, Cibane said. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said he did not understand why the apartheid debt report was not treated with the same urgency as the incomplete State of Capture report. That s the issue why is it not published? The way State of Capture was written in a rush then released [was] totally clumsy in my view, Mantashesaid. Absa has described the preliminary report as containing several factual and legal inaccuracies , criticisng it for perpetuating an incorrect view that it benefited from the bank bailout in question.cliven@thenewage.co.za