Gerrie Nel, credited with the prosecutions of Jackie Selebi, Glenn Agliotti, Radovan Krejcir and Oscar Pistorius, has President Jacob Zuma in his sights as he starts his new role with AfriForum.Yesterday Nel announced his resignation.While he gave the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) 24 hours notice he said his decision to start a private prosecution service for AfriForum was a decision he had thought long and hard about.While he was at pains to explain he was neither politically aligned nor bad friends with the NPA during the press conference, it was confirmed the new unit would be looking at a document known as joining the dots .This document gained infamy when discussed by private investigator Paul O Sullivan and Ipid head Robert McBride. The document, commissioned by AfriForum and written by O Sullivan, links various cases the document says have fallen off the radar.It concludes that in the absence of any other plausible explanation it is clear that the following persons should investigated for corruption and defeating the ends of justice. Zuma for his alleged unlawful, intentional and in conspiracy with others having captured the criminal justice system, so charges against himself, his family and criminal associates of his family, would be derailed. Lt-Gen Vinesh Moonoo for allegedly receiving bribes to derail investigations against Zuma. Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza, Gauteng Hawks boss Prince Mokotedi and NDPP head Shaun Abrahams for allegedly derailing criminal cases against Zuma.In addition Ntlemeza and Abrahams should face charges for malicious prosecutions against Gordhan, McBride, Dramat and Sibiya. Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko for allegedly conspiring to derail criminal cases against Zuma and mounting false and malicious investigations into Gordhan, McBride, Dramat, Sibiya, O Sullivan and others. He should also be charged with fruitless and wasteful expenditure for paying R17m in golden handshakes and for vexatious litigation. The conduct of Richard Mdluli, former head of crime intelligence, and two journalists Mzilikazi wa AFrika and Stephan Hofstatter should also be investigated, the report says.Yesterday Afriforum CEO Kallie Kriel said the unit would work with O Sullivan and entertain some of his cases. Nel said he would start with an investigation to determine which public officials had strong cases that were not being prosecuted. He faced a barrage of criticism for joining AFriforum.One tweet read: Sad, sad day to see a dedicated, wellloved prosecutor like #GerrieNel quit the NPA to join a divisive organisation like Afriforum .Nel defended his decision. I will not sell my integrity, follow us and criticise us. If you think we have an agenda, challenge us, Nel said.NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said there should be one prosecuting authority in the country. The NPA will always get the first bite of the cherry. There cannot be any parallel structure for prosecutions. Mfaku said although there were legal avenues for prosecutions, the NPA remained the only constitutional structure to execute criminal prosecutions. The only constitutional structure with a full mandate to conduct criminal prosecutions on behalf of the state is the NPA.That provides for private prosecutions in the event the NPA does not prosecute, but the internal remedy must be exhausted, that is why the NPA must issue a certificate permitting a private prosecution, he said. Justice and Constitutional Development spokesperson Mthunzi Mhaga said the department would not comment at this stage.Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini described Nel s departure from the NPA to AfriForum as an anti-transformation move . I see a regrouping of those who are still aggrieved democracy has come to South Africa. Time will tell if his decision is honest or if he has been working for an extreme right wing organisation while at the NPA, he said. SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo slammed Nel s move to AfriForum. He described Nel s move as being to preserve white privilege . He said that he ll be fighting for the rights of all South Africans but AfriForum does not fight for the rights of all organisations.His association therefore has the undertone that he has harboured the interests represented by AfriForum, Mashilo said.-PETER RAMOTHWALA AND BONOLO SELEBANO