DESPITE the gigantic magnitude of the task that awaits the Banyana Banyana Janine van Wyk at her new club, the Houston Dash, the defender is not fazed by the challenge. April will be a life changing month for the captain, Van Wyk, as she begins her career in the United States National Women s Soccer League (NWSL).She has signed a two-year contract. Houston have been campaigning in the 10-team league since 2014 and have not achieved a top four finish. A top four finish will see the side making the NWSL playoffs for the first time, a feat that Dash desperately want to achieve. The US side has brought in Van Wyk and Brazilian defender Bruna Benites with the hope that the two will help Dash achieve the goal.The South African caught the eye of the club s coach, Randy Waldrum, during Banyana s friendly with the US before the Rio Olympic Games last year. Last season, Van Wyk s new outfit didn t do well. They finish poorly in eighths place in the league. They are a top team and haven t got to the playoffs as yet, Van Wyk said.Coach Waldrum is adamant that together with the other central defender that she has brought in from Brazil, Benites, they will make a huge difference by contributing positively to the team and help them to reach the playoffs. I will say there is more pressure on Bruna and I because we thought they (Dash) were lacking as a team in areas that prevented them from reaching the playoffs. Now that we have been brought in as central defenders, and are new in the team, they expect us to lead them to the playoffs spot, Van Wyk said.What Van Wyk faces is a challenge to unnerve any player, but not so with the 29-year-old South African. She looks forward to the challenge at the start of the US season. We are really looking forward to that. I am looking forward to the challenge. I play well and give of my best under pressure so I am really excited about the opportunity, Van Wyk said. The skipper will leave for the US in the first week of March and will join the growing list of local players plying their trade in America. They include Jermaine Seoposenwe Robyn Moodaly Kelso Peskin and Kaylin Swart doing duty in the land of opportunity.sithembisod@thenewage. co.za-Sithembiso Dindi