South Africa s water challenges seem far from being over, at least judging by the data on dam levels that were released recently. The figures paint a gloomy picture on the availability of this precious resource in winter.At 50.9%, the figure is a far cry from water levels in previous years. Normally, in January and February of each year, water storage facilities are filled to the brim.This is usually the period when civil engineers are opening sluice gates to avoid dams from bursting, causing untold damage to human life and the environment.However, the latest figures released by the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) reflected half-full dams across the country, except small dams that are bursting at the seams. According to Trevor Balzer, the deputy director-general of emergency projects in the department, recent rainfalls have increased dam levels by a mere 1.9%. Bluntly put, the water situation in the country is as dire as it was last November, Balzer told journalists during a visit to the Vaal Dam last week. Even more disturbing are hydrological reports that the La Ni a phenomenon brought with it above-normal rainfalls, which brought along flash floods in parts of South Africa, has returned to normal.This means that with the exception of isolated thundershowers expected in some areas in the next few weeks, the country may experience dwindling rainfalls before we enter the dry winter season.Consequently, we are poised for a return to the days of desperation when water will become scarce commodity, though not in the same magnitude of 2014-15 proportions. Yet, this raises the question of how long can the available water sustain us as a nation and what can be done ?The answer lies in our behavioural change in the use of water. The little amount that we have in our reserves can sustain us until the next summer rains toward the end of this year as long as we bear in mind that South Africa is first and foremost a water-scarce country. Our average annual rainfall is 400ml which is half of the world s 850ml in the same period.World Bank water experts rated South Africa as one of the 30 countries in the world that run the risk of becoming a desert unless we embarked on a concerted effort to save the little water resources at our disposal. The government heeded the warning and introduced vigorous water saving measures such as the National Water Conservation Campaign and Water Conservation and Demand Management that bore some fruit.Through the SA Youth Water Prize competition the DWS seeks to instil in young people the importance of saving water. The competition stimulates the technical minds of youth to award-winning heights and it fosters the culture of caring and conservation among pupils the. By educating our youth the country is investing in its future. In the past two years the DWS has spent millions of rands to intervene in drought-stricken areas where the absence of water has wreaked havoc and caused untold damage to the crops and human life. In KwaZulu-Natal where the drought started in 2014 the DWS intervened decisively and reached to the beleaguered municipalities through the provincial Cooperative-Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta). Presenting a state of water in the province, DWS s head in the province, Ashley Starkey, said the department was pumping millions of rands to help struggling municipalities.The department joined hands with Cogta in the province and bought jojo water tanks and custom-made wheelbarrows and distributed among communities to enable them to access water easily. These and other measures had gone a long way to mitigate the effects of the drought.Rainwater harvesting has become the most elementary and cheapest way of saving water in a water scarce country as ours. The system is used mainly in rural areas where the majority of communities do not have water reticulated in their houses. Rainwater has its advantages such as free access to clean drinking water, it is environmentally sound, reduces the capital needed for expensive dam building, and eliminates the need for new sewerage treatment works.Perhaps with the dwindling water resources that the country is faced with, it is about time that South Africa turns to groundwater as a major source of drinking water. Groundwater has a great potential of alleviating South Africa s water scarcity and the DWS is exploring this option to address water challenges in the countryAccording to the Water Research Commission, about 420 towns in the country are largely dependent on groundwater and 80% of rural villages are dependent entirely on this rare resource. These include many parts of North West, including the 19 villages of Madibeng, where the department is in the process of unrolling its water supply projects as its intervention to alleviate the dire situation.Water recycling is one of the key methods of conserving water.For quite some time the government has been encouraging the agricultural industry to resort to using recycled water for the irrigation of crops. Using drinking water to irrigate crops is a sheer waste of water that the country cannot afford. Driaan Louw-Kemp, an award-winning student from Bloemfontein, last year designed a scientific water conservation project that automatically transfers grey water into a tank outside a house after a person has taken a shower or bath. The water can be used later for the irrigations of gardens and cropsWith all water conservation methods at its disposal, South Africa has a good chance to have sustainable water until the next summer rains at the end of the year.Themba KhumaloThemba Khumalo is a content developer at the Department of Water and Sanitation