The Department of Education has confirmed that private schools and public schools are of equal education standard in the Eastern Cape.Statistic South Africa shows that most parents in the Eastern Cape have 2 115 707 children attending public schools and 102 596 are in private school.Across all eight districts of Eastern Cape there is a huge difference between children from the age of five to 19 that attend private schools and those in public school.Anele Mfana s two kids attend Royal Capital Private School in Queenstown. He said private schools give better quality education. Unlike public schools, in private schools teachers are attentive to pupils and are aware if pupils are having problems in their personal lives. There is a great balance when it comes to extramural activities and school. He emphasised that children who go to private schools have a better foundation than those of public schools that assists them to be well equipped in knowledge for the next level of their education.Meanwhile, Lynette Konela s son attends Bashee Pjs School, a public combined school located in Ntibane, Engcobo. English is the first language. She does not pay tuition fees. Back when I went to school we were taught English in Xhosa by teachers explaining English terms in Xhosa.This made it very hard for me to know the language fluently. Now the teachers at my son s school are white and only speak English and he is doing very well in speaking the language, Konela said. There is not really much of a difference in taking a child to a private or public school. One just needs to be selective in choosing the public schools based on the reputation it has with in the community.Schools need to be registered and teachers need to be qualified. She said the only expense she has is transport.She added that as much as she does not have a problem with public or private schools, she would prefer to take her son to a private school but she cannot afford it.Department of education spokesperson in the Eastern Cape Mali Mtima said educational at for private and public schools is of equal quality.He said schools such as Saint Matthews and Saint Johns were in the rural areas had a world class pass rate and there are those schools in town that are less developed with a low pass rate. Parents are more concerned with schools that have a good pas rate. There is not really much of a difference in the quality of education.The department is here to ensure that all pupils are given a good education, Matima said.He said the department was working tirelessly to redress problems of the past by making sure that schools have library, media centre, computers and a hall. Sports is an essential element to focus on in schools because some children do very well in sports rather than academics and it is crucial that we support those children. I strongly encourage that our teachers be motivated in the crucial job they carry out with the pupils, Matima said.provinces@thenewage.co.za