A VERY low number of households in the Northern Cape have participated or engaged in agricultural activities, Statistics South Africa said.The agency said the province figures stood at 2.1% of the country s total and this was a worrying factor for food security. The information is mostly used for food security, decision making, planning and measurement of employment and research work in the sector, Statistic South Africa said.The data comes as the province is battling to make ends meet with persistant drought and veld fires. African Farmers Association of South Africa president Dr Vuyo Mahlati said they were engaging with the government to ensure that the province priorities 50 small farmers.Mahlati said the establishment of agri-parks was key in making sure that black farmers had access to market opportunities and increase the number of households engaging in agriculture.She said as an organisation they continue to appeal to farmers not to rely on the government but to be proactive and take advantage of available opportunities. We asked that agri-parks be implemented in partnership with the department of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, whose main responsibility is farmer support and development. The success of agri-parks will depend on the success of the commercialisation programme where black farmers are at the centre of it all, Mahlati said. Meanwhile, Afasa secretary-general Aggrey Mahanjana said funding was still a major challenge to black farmers. We are not sure what is going to happen to farmers who applied for recap as well as those who still need it, Mahanjana said. He said they talked to Minister Gugile Nkwinti regarding the matter of funding farmers following an outcry from land reform beneficiaries who could not access any farmer support from the government. No one understands what is happening with the government s programmes especially the planning, allocation of funds and implementation of initiatives like the comprehensive agricultural support programme which continue to happen in the dark. The challenges which smallholder farmers in the Northern Cape are facing are what other provinces are facing as well, so we will be going to demand answers from the government on how best we can be helped, Mahanjana said.He said farmers had raised concerns to the government with no answers or any intervention coming their way. There are lot of issues we have, such as inadequate post-settlement farmer support and the slow pace of the land reform process which could lead to a potential food crisis in the country. tiisetsom@thenewage.co.zaTIISETSO MANOKO