Regular exercise and fitness are great ways to increase confidence to the people of one of the largest informal settlements on the Cape Flats. The Strong Bones Gym is a shack built on sand dunes in Enkanini informal settlement in Khayelitsha.Every day kids as young as 10 and adults flock to this poorly equipped training room to exercise and build their muscles. The gym, which is situated in a backyard, was formed in 2011 by owner and local resident Bongisani Sidondile. Club members say the gym is affordable as they only have to pay R50 a month to do exercises, lift weights, spin and hit the punching bag.This tiny training hall is made of corrugated iron, planks, a steel burglar door with one window on the side of the wall and worn out floor mats. The walls inside the facility are adorned with press and photo clips of muscular professional local and overseas weight lifters. Training equipment at the gym include four old spinning bicycles, three rowers, four elliptical, a rack of weights, dumbbells and some other weights.Members doing work-outs in the late afternoon light candles because the gym doesn t have electricity. Trainer Sidondile said that the idea to establish a training club in 2011 was to instil confidence in the people and youngsters in the area. We have a lot of drugs in our area and this was meant to keep youngsters healthy and busy after school. We are living in poor conditions, without electricity and proper sanitation so to restore our confidence at a gym is the only way. Sidondile says that he collects old and unused training equipment to equip his gym. We are faced with other serious challenges as there is no electricity and at night we light candles which poses a danger to members. Another problem is the heat and flooding during the rainy season. The heat is unbearable here when it s hot and the equipment gets damaged because the water seeps through the ceiling when it rains. We need more space and some donations to better our gym to benefit all the people from around here. Living in shacks doesn t mean we can t better our lives. As residents of this informal dwelling we want to prove that good things can also come from shack-land . The sky is the limit and we are looking forward to seeing more youngsters getting into physical shape and living a healthy life style. Vuyolwethu Mbanyana, 26, who has been lifting weights at the club for almost seven months, said he joined the gym because it was affordable. Yes the club does need training equipment.But it is affordable and very close to my home. Although the club doesn t have sufficient equipment, I can still see the results. I am working on my body to look good and healthy all the time. And the gym helps the young. It is good to see youngsters training because it helps them stay away from drugs and a life of crime .As a regular fitness trainee Mbanyana said he wishes the gym could develop into a big fitness centre. Anyone who wishes to donate gym equipment to Strong Bones Gym, can icall Bongisani on 078 567 2611.-Mpumi Kiva|provinces@thenewage.co.za