THE ANC Youth League (ANCYL) yesterday launched a scathing attack on Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, accusing the pair of being “defenders of white monopoly capital”. Briefing the media at the St Georges Hotel in Irene outside Pretoria, ANCYL secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza said that while the young lions would steer clear from calling Ramaphosa and Gordhan “corrupt”, the league charged that the pair were “conflicted” by their business interests in companies doing business with the government. “We are wary and alert of leaders who protect companies that are not assisting in transformation. Where is South African Airways (SAA) reporting to? It’s reporting to Treasury and we are worried about the bureaucracy of Treasury,” Nzuza said. Nzuza’s comments come against the background of the ANCYL vowing to shift their campaign against corruption in the country’s financial sector into high gear. It is for this that Nzuza said that the league would begin efforts to drum up support to demonstrate against Absa, with the first action beginning today. This comes after a leaked public protector report on Absa’s apartheid loan. The report revealed that Absa may have unduly benefited from the former regime’s bailout. “Provinces, regions and branches will hold demonstrations at various Absa establishments. Within a period of two weeks the league will mobilise thousands of young people to demonstrate against Absa. “We also request all South Africans, the youth in particular, that today, they must call the Absa call centre and ask them when are they paying back the money.” ANC national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize has listed detailed accusations against the finance minister on his alleged business dealings. He charged that Gordhan was somehow benefiting from the business affairs of SAA. “The Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, appointed a consultant who serves as a board consultant and that board tells SAA must take everything, other things, to a company called Bidvest. “Who is at Bidvest? Among those that you know at Bidvest is the deputy president of the ANC, but who else is there, it is the minister himself, Pravin Gordhan.” Mkhize said that Gordhan was contributing towards SAA’s perceived hardening resistance to transformation. “Comrade Pravin Gordhan made it clear to the board that he is not going to allow the board to begin with transformation because transformation means that you are going to chuck out many white service providers who provide services to SAA,” he said. ANC president Collen Maine, while making it unequivocally clear that the ANCYL was not suggesting that Gordhan and Ramaphosa were corrupt, said however that the trail of their business interests in companies doing business with the government undermined the government efforts in accelerating economic transformation. “There a difference between corruption and conflict of interest. “We are saying that people are conflicted,” he said. Bonolo Selebano