After seven albums to his name, maskandi musician Mroza Fakude finally tasted success when his song, Van Damme won Ukhozi FM s SABC Summer Song of the Year accolade.The song wrapped last year and ushered music lovers into this year in the early hours of Sunday morning.Many had predicted Babes Wodumo s Wololo or King Monanada s Ska Bhora Moreki to be favourites to win the title.Speaking to Ukhozi FM yesterday, the excited Mroza thanked his fans and the maskandi fraternity in general for the support. I do not think I would be here if it was not for the people who voted for me to win the title. I am still in shock and do not know what to say. People do not realise the song is about overcoming obstacles and making sure that one never gives up in life. I know the struggles of trying to make it and the fact that even when people laughed at me I never lost hope, this is what the song is about, Mroza said. The singer also took to his Facebook page where he continued to thank his fans saying for having given him the support needed to be counted among the best maskandi musicians in the country.The fact that Mroza became the first maskandi artist to usher in the new year on Ukhozi FM also prompted Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa to issue a brief statement through his Twitter account where he lauded the singer: We congratulate Mroza for making history by producing the 1st Maskandi song Van Damme to be recognised as the SABC Summer Song of the Year. In the song Van Damme, the subject represents an obstacle which seems insurmountable but that can be overcome with courage &amp; determination, the minister said.Many dissatisfied listeners said the song did not deserve to win the coveted number one spot on South Africa s biggest radio station. How did #ukhozifm come up with Van Damme as song of the year and trying to make it seem like it was the whole country? Mike Maphoto said on Twitter.However, speaking to The New Age SABC spokesperson, Kaizer Kganyago said those who are not satisfied with the results are the same people who did not vote for their favourite artists. Speaking via social media does not constitute voting for your favourite artist. Mroza won through public votes. His supporters voted in their numbers. The results were independently audited and verified, so you cannot query them on social media, Kganyago said.In 2012, the public broadcaster was criticised and accused of favouritism after DJ Tira s Summertime was selected as the song of the year, after firm favourite DJ Vetkoek &amp; Mahoota s Via Orlando was overlooked for the title.Dominating not one but five SABC radio stations apiece, Babes Wodumo s Wololo and King Monada s Ska Bhora Moreki look set to win the overall Summer 2016 song of the year title, which comes with a R150000 cheque and a Kia car.Wololo dominated stations such as Umhlobo Wenene, Metro FM, 5 FM, Ikwekwezi, and Lesedi FM, while Ska Bhora Moreki dominated Thobela FM, Liphalaphala, Mughana Lonene FM and Motsweding FM.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za