The National Student Financial Aid Scheme(NSFAS) is expected to finalise all applications by close of business on Friday. This is after the student aid scheme had paid R1.3-billion to 26 public universities as an advance payment of registration fees for students from disadvantaged backgrounds . NSFAS spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said they expect universities to work with them to ensure that registration of funded students goes as smooth as possible because government has confirmed funding. We are continuing to approve more students everyday this week and expect to finalise all applications by close of business on Friday, and therefore we would like to request all students to exercise patience as we are working to ensure that all applications have been processed and all applicants responded to,&#8221; said Mamabolo. The institution reported an increase in applications this year after a deadline was extended and the scheme now funds more than 400,000 university scholars this year. All returning students, who were funded in 2016, should not panic as they will automatically be funded in 2017 without having to apply for financial aid, provided they have signed the agreement form for financial assistance and they have passed at least 50% of their enrolled modules, said Mamabolo. Meanwhile registration has been delayed in two universities in the Eastern Cape due to outstanding documents from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) and late applications by new students. Rhodes University and Walter Sisulu reported delays in registering students. Rhodes University postponed the payment of registration fees, submission and completion of a financial plan by a week, due to late NSFAS applications. Walter Sisulu spokesperson Yonela Tukwayo confirmed registration was postponed at all WSU campuses as NSFAS had not confirmed the number of students it was going to fund. NSFAS said over 160 000 students have been approved for funding and NSFAS is confident that there will not be any students turned away who have secured space because of lack of funding. We expect that our students will be treated fairly and not be discriminated against based on their backgrounds, said Mamabolo. Mamabolo has reassured the public and students who have not received confirmatory SMSes from NSFAS to wait as they are still processing some applications. TNA Reporter 