Parliament&#8217;s two education oversight committees, the Select Committee on Education and Recreation and the Portfolio Committee on Basic Education, have congratulated the matric class of 2016.In a joint statement, the two committees, which represent the National Council of Provinces and the National Assembly, also commended the Free State for returning the best matric pass rate in South Africa.The committees also spoke approvingly of the national pass rate improving from 2015 s 74% to 76.2%.The national pass rate stands at 72.5% if progressed pupils are included in the results. Progressed pupils are pupils who were promoted into matric after repeatedly failing Grade 11. The 72.5% pass rate achieved by the 2016 cohort shows progressive improvement in the basic education system, said the two Parliamentary Committees.The matric returns were also a testimony to the cooperation between the basic education department, parents, teachers and pupils, which was central to improving the quality of the children s education, the statement said. The committee remains steadfast in its belief in active participation by parents in ensuring that their children get the quality of education enshrined in the Constitution, Lungelwa Zwane, the chairperson of the Select Committee, said.Both committees congratulated the Free State for its 93.2% pass rate, up from 81.6% last year. The Portfolio Committee wishes to congratulate MEC Tate Makgoe and his department for the leadership they are showing in achieving consistent high pass rates. The committee hopes that his strategies, and those of other high performing provinces, can be replicated by struggling provinces, the chairperson of the basic education portfolio committee, Nomalungelo Gina, said.Both committees highlighted the significant contribution by corporate SA in partnering with the Department of Basic Education (DBE) to ensure access to quality education. The committees urge more businesses and private sponsors to assist the department in rolling out quality education, especially in information technology, the statement said.However the committees expressed concern about the 18 schools that continued to produce no matric passes. They urged DBE to do everything in its power to assist these underperforming schools. This situation should not be allowed to continue. Urgent intervention with regular monitoring is required. Ultimately it is our pupils who suffer. We need to turn this situation around for them, Gina said.The two committees urged unsuccessful pupils to use the programmes made available by the DBE to complete their National Senior Certificate. We urge parents and communities to support these pupils and encourage them to try again, Gina said.DENNIS CRUYWAGEN