Thanda Royal Zulu coach Roger Sikhakhane believes the arrival of Philani Cele and Thabiso Nkoana will help ease the pressure on striker Mhlengi Cele.The two new attackers are among the three signings that the National First Division (NFD) log leaders have made so far.Philani joined AmaBhubhesi from Kaizer Chiefs while Nkoana signed after a six-month stint with Stellenbosch FC.Thanda also acquired the services of Nkosinathi Zitha who was released by Golden Arrows.Cele s sharpness in front of goal has helped AmaBhubesi to the top of the table with 35 points from 15 matches.He has found the back of the net 12 times, just two strikes less than the NFD s leading goal scorer, Sedwyn George of Royal Eagles. We have only got one experienced striker, Mhlengi Cele, we needed someone who will ease off the pressure on him, Sikhakhane said. Philani is a very good young boy, he is a player who plays the same style that we are playing at Thanda. So he will add value to the team going forward. Philani struggled for game time at Amakhosi and will hope to hit the ground running at his new club.Despite spending a lengthy amount of time on the sidelines, Sikhakhane believes Philani will be ready to play against Mbombela United next week Saturday. I think he has picked up very fast in our first two days of training. The physical training that we did helped him to pick up quite fast, he will be ready before we start playing competitive league matches. Sikhakhane is also happy that they have managed to hang onto top performers such as Cele and Ayabulela Konqobe, who are on the wish list of clubs in the top tier. That s a normal situation because when you are doing well other teams will want your players, but our players are very focused. They are going to do their best to help the club achieve promotion. Thanda are enjoying a lead of 10 points at the summit of the NFD table but Sikhakhane wants his players to forget about that and continue to work hard. We are still far from promotion, maybe after 20 matches we can start talking about promotion. SITHEMBISO DINDIsithembisod@thenewage.co.za