Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was yesterday accused of reverse victim syndrome after he filed a second affidavit in a declaratory application he had brought to the North Gauteng High Court.Ten days ago, Oakbay Investments submitted an affidavit in response to Gordhan s application in October last year in which he sought a declaration from the court to confirm he has no legal responsibility to intervene in the matter of the closure of Oakbay s bank accounts by South Africa s four biggest banks: Absa, Nedbank, Standard Bank and FNB. Today s affidavit is a case of reverse victim syndrome, a spokesperson for Oakbay Investments said yesterday. The applicant proactively came after us and smeared our name with a flawed list of transactions that he used his unique executive power to obtain and then questions the manner of our response to him. All of this changes nothing. . Our bank accounts remain closed and no evidence exists to prove why that is the case. We look forward to clearing our name in court. In Oakbay s responding affidavit it said the minister s superfluous application was riddled with factual and legal errors. The company said Gordhan s reliance on the list of 72 purported suspicious transaction reports was misplaced and the minister s application was supported by a flawed analysis and a faulty factual record. Oakbay has never suggested that the minister is required to intervene in the bank-customer relationship. There is no contested legal issue here and there is never any reason for the minister to bring this application, Oakbay s statement said. This application is an abuse of court and an effort to involve the independent judiciary to settle political scores. The court should therefore decline to grant the relief sought by the minister and dismiss the minister s application with costs. Gordhan yesterday responded to Oakbay Investments accusation that he was waging a vendetta against the Gupta family and its companies by saying that it was he and the national Treasury that were the victims of a systematic and highly organised campaign by the Gupta family and its associates against the national Treasury, myself and other targets .Oakbay Investments is the holding company of the Gupta brothers investments and the holding company of The New Age.Gordhan said in his affidavit handed to court yesterday that the January 20 court filing by Oakbay was part of this campaign.The Guptas in their papers said this statement was riddled with factual and legal errors .In Gordhan s 103-page affidavit yesterday he said he believed there was no bona fide opposition to his application for a declaratory order confirming that he could not intervene on Oakbay s behalf in its dispute with the banks. It (the application) is supported by the banks, the registrar of banks, the Reserve Bank and the Financial Intelligence Centre, his affidavit reads.Gordhan said Oakbay had sought to use a concise application as a springboard to salvage its commercial and other interests and filed extensive papers, yet did not address affidavits filed by the banks.He said Oakbay wanted his application to fail, even though Oakbay conceded that his position was correct in law. Oakbay filed its response to Gordhan s court application on January 22, telling the court that Gordhan s case was a damp squib and null and void.Acting Oakbay CEO Ronica Ragavan said in those papers that Gordhan had told a meeting of about 60 captains of industry and CEOs of large companies that he planned to clip the wings of the Gupta family.Gordhan denied this in yesterday s papers. He included affidavits from people present at the meeting who said the Guptas had not been discussed at the meeting. 701198-TNA REPORTER