The National Economic Development and Labour Council social partners on the national minimum wage are in a race against time to pen a deal by February 2.National Council of Trade Unions president Joseph Maqhekeni said the labour, government, business and community constituencies working under the auspices of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa at Nedlac, were working feverishly to wrap up all discussions ahead of President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address. The intention is to conclude discussions and reach an agreement so that we can give the report to the president to tell the nation what is happening. We are very close to concluding, Maqhekeni said.He said that the next step would be working towards a legislative framework to have the R3 500 a month wage floor below which no worker should be paid, to be legislated. The suggestion on the table is that parties need to agree on either January 1, 2018, or before May 1, 2018. So we ll need to work backwards to prepare the legislation to ensure that businesses comply. Maqhekeni s comments come against the background of the ANC saying at its recent January 8 meeting that the party regarded 2017 as a year of radical economic change.Maqhekeni said what was crucial was that the wage should be backed up by a legislative framework to prevent unscrupulous employers from wriggling out of paying workers the proposed R3 500 per month wage. Everybody must comply whether they are a small or big business. If you can t there is an exemption process where you ll have to present your books, but you can t have a law and people don t comply, he said.Maqhekeni, making reference to the proposal that wages in the domestic and agricultural sector be set at 75% and 90% of the proposed R3 500 respectively, said that workers in these sectors of the economy should not be left behind. If you go that route, there must be a time frame where they can catch up to R3 500 a month. We should also have a committee monitoring all these matters, he said.Maqhekweni said that the social partner s discussions at Nedlac on stabilising labour relations agreed on the need for a secret ballot to be conducted by a union before its members went on strike. Some unions already have strike ballot procedures in their constitutions. Those who don t have will get a window period to make changes to their constitutions between now and when they have their national congresses. There was another proposal to have a second strike ballot conducted while people were on strike. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za