THE family violence, child protection and sexual offences unit in Uitenhage, Eastern Cape, have released an identikit of a man suspected of kidnapping and raping a 14-year-old girl in KwaNobuhle last week. It is believed that the suspect is 21 years old and is light in complexion. He allegedly threatened the girl with a knife and dragged her to bushes near Ponana Tini Road where he raped her. Meanwhile, the eradication strategy, Operation Back to Basics, continues to clear the Eastern Cape of criminal elements due to continuous police visibility and operations aimed at the arrest of wanted suspects, the seizure of firearms and illegal drugs, Eastern Cape police said. During operations over the past two weeks, 633 people were arrested, 152 for crimes detected as a results of police action, 70 for assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm, 19 for murder, 21 for all forms of robberies and other serious crimes. A total of 143 dangerous weapons including knives, pangas and 15 firearms were recovered, police said. In Mthatha police arrested eight suspects aged between 25 and 56 years old after they were found in possession of three unlicensed firearms and ammunition. These suspects were arrested in joint follow-up information on a planned robbery that was going to take place at Cofimvaba. The arrests were executed by Queenstown K9 Uunit and flying squad, Mthatha K9 unit and flying squad, Cofimvaba and Ngcobo crime intelligence unit at Ngcengane locality in Mthatha on the R61 road. Cradock SAPS also held an investigation into the illegal brewing of concoctions. These actions are used as a method to address contact related crimes and social crimes. During the operation, members visited a number of illegal liquor outlets and destroyed more than 1 400 litres of concoction and confiscated the containers, police said. Meanwhile, members from Uitenhage cluster conducted a roadblock in conjunction with traffic officials on the R75 road. A total of 147 vehicles and 58 people were searched. One trailer was confiscated and traffic fines valued at R3000 were issued. Elliot K9 unit and Barkley East members followed up on information on house break-ins reported in the Barkley East area. Two suspects were arrested for possession of suspected stolen property. Property valued about R30000 was recovered, police said. Another breakthrough was the arrest of three suspects linked to the murder of 25-year-old Noluthabo Maliza in Peddie. Members of the team investigating the kidnapping and murder worked tirelessly since the report of this heinous crime. Three male suspects were arrested, two of the suspects aged 24 and 19 were arrested in Peddie, while the third aged 27 was traced to and arrested in Mdantsane. All the suspects appeared in court and have been remanded in custody until today for their bail application, police said. The highlight of our week were the comments made by two US citizens who fell prey to robbers in Port Elizabeth last week Wednesday. They were swiftly rescued by police who helped them return home. The investigation is ongoing. Provincial Commissioner LtGen Liziwe Ntshinga commended members for the recovery of illegal weapons. She further urged all firearm owners to be responsible and adhere to the Firearms Control Act, 2000 at all times, as some of the weapons were lost through negligence while others were taken from their rightful owners through theft and violent means. These illegal firearms and dangerous weapons are used in the commission of crimes, especially robbery, murder and hijacking and their elimination from society is one step closer to ensuring the safety of the public. According to the law, no person, including an heir of the deceased, is allowed to have a firearm or ammunition in their possession if they do not have the necessary authorisation for it, Ntshinga said. LONDEKA DLAMINI