Premier Supra Mahumapelo has congratulated the 2016 matric class following an improved performance that has seen the province retain its fourth place nationally.The province posted a percentage point improvement from the previous year s 81.5% in 2015 to 82.5% in 2016.Mahumapelo heaped praise on the education and sport development department for the results that would have put the province at 86.2% if progressed pupils were not taken into account.He said that the achievement was commendable and served to contribute to the provincial efforts of rebranding and repositioning the province. I would like to congratulate all learners, teachers, parents, SGBs, trade unions, officials, and other stakeholders for this significant achievement by the matric class of 2016. This achievement is a result of constant commitment by all stakeholders throughout the year. We know that teachers and learners had to put in extra hours to ensure that learners were ready for the final examination, he said.Mahumapelo has urged successful students to pursue their studies at tertiary institutions and work towards being the best they can.He said through education they could serve the province and the country well in years to come. To learners who have passed well, the sky is the limit, go on shining. To those who have stumbled, please give it another try this year and you will make it. Consider challenges as necessary platforms for success. Never relent, he said.In the past four years, the province has maintained a place among the top four and the premier has expressed hope that the 2017 class would make a significant improvement on the present pass rate.He also called for the strengthening of working relationships with all stakeholders in education as this was one of the key recipes for success .Mahumapelo further commended Ngaka Modiri Molema district for being the best education district in the province and Kgetleng area office for coming out tops among the 18 area offices in the province.The province is predominantly rural and most of its schools are quintile 1 to 3 and largely no fee schools. Our belief is that increasing access to education can make a significant contribution in changing the province for the better. To this end, the province will in February announce additional new measures as part of its efforts to enhance the quality of learning and teaching, he said.The premier has challenged the department to invest extra efforts in lower grades as this may enhance better performance at matriculation level.Presenting the results in Taung, education and sport development MEC Sello Lehari congratulated the 2016 class for their performance. In 2015, we scored 81.5% and fourth place in the country. Hard work continued in 2016, special interventions took place through the last push and spring camps which resulted in an improved pass rate with a percentage point to 82.5% and the province retains fourth place in the country and for that we are happy, he said.Lehari said more needed to be done to take the province to the top, arguing that the objective was possible if all worked harder.However, DA provincial spokesperson on education Dr Tutu Faleni said that the province had regressed and that poor leadership in government would continue to cost young people their future.ELFAS TORERAI