Whoever gets elected as ANC president on the basis of slates will not earn the respect of the party s alliance partners, SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said yesterday.Mashilo, while making it unequivocally clear that the communists would not pronounce on individual names but the principles and attributes of leadership in relation to the ANC s succession debate, warned that whoever ascended to the highest echelons of the ANC s leadership through slates and factionalism would steer the party towards a path of electoral decline. Whoever will win the ANC based on the politics of slates and factionalism will only inherit a shell of an organisation and not the totality of its support that of the alliance partners and the entire base of the motive forces of our struggle, Mashilo said.It is for this reason, he said, that the ANC s leadership should work towards the unity of the tripartite alliance. This is why we have called for and will remain steadfast that the ANC must manage leadership transition in a way that unites rather than divides. Mashilo s comments come against the background of the ANC succession debate having gained momentum following the ANC Women s League (ANCWL) official endorsement of Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to lead the party at its December elective conference.Mashilo, while steering clear of naming the ANCWL outright, took the league to task for violating an ANC NEC decision not to punt individuals for the party s leadership contest during a time that the debate has not been officially opened. The ANC January 8 statement that called for ANC structures, leaders and members to refrain from discussing individual names for ANC succession was clearly violated a day before it was presented at the rally held at Orlando Stadium. They knew what was contained in the statement. Its violation a day before it was publicly unveiled by President Jacob Zuma was not a sign of unity in action. It is definitely a sign of contradictions and the pursuit of disunity. Mashilo also spoke against the jostling for positions during ANC election processes. Winning structures factionally does not guarantee you the support of the people who you isolated, marginalised and suppressed in your factional policy. You can only have a shell of an organisation and the election results will teach you a lesson, he said.Mashilo said that the SACP would enrich the ANC s succession debate only through identifying an individual who could take the alliance forward.-Bonolo Selebano