Jubilation and excitement ruled the first day of school for both parents and thousands of Grade 1 pupils of 2017 as they attended big school yesterday.Parent Precious Nkosi accompanied her twins, Ndumiso and Ayanda Nkosi, for their first day at the Hope Fountain Combined School in Midrand yesterday. I am so happy for them, they grow up so fast. I am not worried about them at all because I have checked everything about the school and everything is fine, she said.Her son, Ndumiso said he was happy to be at school. I want to see the teacher. Where is the teacher? the little one said.A few kilometres from Hope Foundation Combined School, Munya Muusha also accompanied his daughter to Halfway House Primary School. I am excited for her. It feels like I am the one who is starting Grade 1. I am sure she will manage and won t be scared as she is strong just like me, he said.Halfway House Primary School principal Silas Pillay said the school was ready and fitted with the necessary resources and classes commenced without disturbances yesterday. We have six Grade 1 classes, 40 children per class.We had a parents welcoming meeting just to answer any inquiries the new parents might have as we start with the year, he said.Grade 1 pupils at Sedi Laka Primary School in Ebony Park, Midrand began their year in a peaceful manner as the majority of them have been with the school from Grade R. There are a few learners who joined us from outside, so there is no one crying or refusing to go into class it s just that they are confused as to what class they have to go to, Sedi Laka principal Mzamo Mazwi, said.In the Western Cape, education MEC Debbie Sch fer visited Valhalla Primary School to welcome the new pupils. It was heartwarming to see so many parents accompany their children to school on their first day.Some Grade R learners and their parents shed some tears, while the Grade 1 learners settled down quickly and said quick goodbyes to their parents, she said.The hashtag #BackToSchoolMemories trended on Twitter as well.Ria Mabaso (@Milahma) tweeted: #BackToSchoolMemories my six year old self carried my books with plastic bag &amp; this boy always teared my plastic with pencil and my book will fall over. Batandwa Malingobatandwam@thenewage.co.za