A Lifeline has been handed to Enocent Mkhabela to resurrect his career with his rejoining his former team Platinum Stars on a six-month loan.Mkhabela joined Kaizer Chiefs at the beginning of the season from SuperSport United but found the going tough at Naturena.But he might just find better opportunities for game time at Dikwena, a side he played for before seeking greener pastures at Chiefs and SuperSport.He played for Dikwena from 2011 to 2013, scoring 40 goals. He then joined SuperSport United in 2013 and proved to be a key player. But following the arrival of coach Stuart Baxter, Mkhabela saw limited game time and was released at the end of last season.Chiefs moved swiftly to sign him but he has failed to break into the starting line up where he has had to compete with Willard Katsande and George Maluleka.Dikwena coach Cavin Johnson is pleased to have him back.Johnson believes he is going to add a lot of dimension to their side having previously worked with him. We know what he can bring having worked with him before. We need that stability he will bring andI think we can be a better team with his participation, Johnson said. He is an experienced player and will help us a lot, especially the younger players we have in the squad. Dikwena general manager Senzo Mazingiza said it was the club s firm belief that the midfielder will help them move from mid-table to top of the log. We are proud to say that we have managed to get Mkhabela on a loan deal from Kaizer Chiefs, says Mazingiza. We are hopeful that he will help us in the middle of the park. Mkhabela s signing brings balance.He has previously worked well with our coach Cavin Johnson, he said.Dikwena has been active in the transfer window, having already acquired the services of Abia Nale, Willem Mwedihanga and Gerald Phiri, and hope to do better in the second round of the tough Premier Soccer League season. Johnson added that Mkhabela was to be their last signing in this latest window period. Dikwena resume their Absa Premiership fixtures with a date against Orlando Pirates on February 8 at the Royal Bafokeng stadium.NEVILLE KHOZAnevillek@thenewage.co.za