Such is the complex task of guiding Orlando Pirates that it may not be until the end of the season that the club finds a suitable candidate for the coaching job.Coaching the Buccaneers is often regarded as an honour in local football, a privilege that invariably supersedes the pressure that the job brings. This could explain the challenge the club face in finding a permanent replacement for erstwhile Muhsin Ertugral, who resigned in a huff just months into the new season.Augusto Palacios, who has been holding the fort on an interim basis, has expressed reservations about continuing in the position on a long-term basis, lamenting the lack of commitment from the players who he says don t recognise the history and privilege of playing for Pirates.Palacios has pointed out a number of new players as lacking the character of previous cavalrymen such Rooi Mahamutsa, Lucky Lekgwathi and Siyabonga Sangweni. But as things stand, Palacios, who was plucked from the development structures, will continue serving in the position at least until May. Several names, including former coach Ruud Krol, have been linked with the job.But Palacios has already begun preparations for the resumption of the league, which recommences early next month. Club boss Irvin Khoza has been quoted as saying the club hopes to have a new coach by the end of January but also acknowledged the difficulty in getting a new coach. However, he remains confident that they will find someone soon.Palacios had resigned himself to leaving in the festive break, offering words of advice to his presumed predecessor. Any coach who will come in will need to work, Palacios said. If tomorrow I have to leave the team and someone comes in, that is not a problem for me. But the players need to be conscious that this is a big club and professional. This jersey is too heavy because it has history but the typical South African comes here and doesn t care because the salary is in the pocket. Khoza, however, has already ruled out Krol s return, saying that the notion of the Dutchman being the best man for the job was a fallacy. You cannot dry today s washing with yesterday s sun, Khoza said. It s not only the coach, the players must also work, the supporters must support and everybody must play their part. KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA |kgomotsos@ thenewage.co.za