Emily Matlala s first task in the morning is to make a fire soon after she wakes at 4.45am, that s before she sets out for her 7km walk to school, hungry.Emily, 16, is full of hopes and dreams of becoming a doctor some day, but every day she has to walk 7km to school in pursuit of her aspiration.The New Age experienced the daily challenges of a rural school child after walking with Emily, a Grade 10 student at Ramoshidi Secondary School.The news crew spent a night at the child s home in Mohote village in Seabe, Mpumalanga and observed her routine.The fourth child in a family of seven, Emily has to prepare a fire to warm water for her three siblings, Ratanang, 11, Fridah, nine, and Andries, five.The three go to a primary school which is close to their home.Emily then takes a bath and puts on her already faded uniform passed down from her sister.Emily hardly says a word to anyone and looks timid each time we talk to her.She leaves home for school just before 6am without eating anything and she tells us there is never any food in the morning.The previous night, her mother Elizabeth Bunkie, told us they had run out of mealie meal and were waiting for their neighbours to return so they could ask for some. My husband and I don t work and we depend on child grants which aren t enough to sustain us for the whole month. As it is, we have to ask for mealie meal from our neighbour, but it s difficult because people get tired of us although they won t say, Bunkie says.Emily embarks on her journey to school on an empty stomach.Along the way, she says that her dream is to become a doctor, but says she is struggling in school because of the distance and the situation at home. I get to school exhausted and I struggle to concentrate. Sometimes I sleep through my lessons because I m tired from the previous night s chores at home. She walks a 2km dusty stretch alone, but when we get to the tarred road she is joined by three of her schoolmates Kagiso Letsoalo, 16, Tshiamo Makinta, 18 both her classmates and Boitshepo Kgaphola, 16, in Grade 11. Like Emily, their parents cannot afford the R7 for a taxi to school and they have to walk the whole way, some of them further than that. If I had a choice I d take a taxi to school but my parents can t afford to give me the money, Makinta says.Emily pulls out a cloth from her bag and wipes her dusty shoes.We chat with Emily s colleagues and ask what their ambitions are after school.None of them has any specific career path planned. Kgaphola says this has been his routine for the past four years and has been turned back because of arriving late a few times. As we approach the school it s 7.10am and the headmaster LL Raditla is waiting at the gate.Students, including Emily and her friends, start running towards her. She lets them in and they head straight to their classes.At 7.50pm, the siren rings and students go for assembly. Three hours later, Emily has her first meal of the day, plain rice with butternut provided by the school. The Department of Basic Education in Mpumalanga said ideally the menu options served in Mpumalanga should consist of three food groups. It has to be a starch (rice, samp and/ or maize meal) and a protein, which could be pilchards, soya mince, sugar beans or milk and vegetables and fruit, Mandisa Ndlovu, the department s spokesperson said.Emily says she slept through much of her first two lessons. I fell asleep during my first two lessons, I was feeling tired and hungry, she says.After the break, one of Emily s teachers tells us she occasionally dozes off during lessons. Like many other students, she struggles to stay awake during lessons because the long walk makes her tired. Emily leaves school at 3pm and walks back home with her three friends. Emily has had to stop extra lessons as she will get home late if she goes.Her older sister was raped coming from school after extra lessons two years ago. Emily says she would never accept a lift, especially if walking alone.Upon arrival at home, she has to wash her uniform as it is her only one and later, iron it before going to sleep to start the same routine the next day.mthokozisid@thenewage.co.za