The statement of the national executive committee (NEC) of the ANC read by President Jacob Zuma during the party s birthday event held at Orlando Stadium on January 7 proved that the ANC has done enough soul-searching and is now turning things around.The message was directed to the members of the ANC, alliance members, ANC supporters and the public at large with no ambiguity. Anyone who claims to have not understood the message must have been listening selectively or does not understand the ANC at all. It is against this background that the leader of the main opposition Mmusi Maimane should be forgiven for his comments after the statement was read by the president of the ANC. Maimane said: The party s 105th birthday celebration was the telltale last gasp of a dying organisation. There are many reasons why Maimane should be forgiven. He is not a member of the ANC or its supporter so he does not understand the ANC, he isn t an alliance member and only represents a smaller fraction of the general public. The message itself was pitched at a very high level for anyone who does not belong to any of the above groups to understand. It would therefore be far-fetched to expect someone like Maimane to receive and understand such a message, the statement was tailor-made for those who at least understand the objectives of the National Democratic Revolution (NDR). What caught everybody by surprise though, was the response of a certain political analyst from a particular TV channel. She said: There was very little that has not already been said by the ANC during the party s January 8 statement. I think, of late, it is losing some of its significance and that s got to do with the growing of the ANC from its liberation movement to a political, governing party. This statement left many South Africans who were listening to the message confused as to whether the analyst was commenting about the same NEC statement. It became clear that if the analyst was indeed listening, she was listening selectively, confirming the president s point when he cautioned the media to report fairly and factually. The NEC statement should be understood within a particular context. The statement was threefold, firstly it celebrated the life of the ANC former president OR Tambo. Secondly, it dealt with policy issues and finally focused extensively on the unity of the organisation. The latter was actually meant to give feedback to the people of South Africa on the assignment they gave to the ANC on August 3 last year to go and get its house in order. The NEC, through its president, was saying to the people of South Africa, We have heard you, we have done our soul searching, we now know what needs to be fixed and this is how we are going to fix it but most importantly we know that we cannot fix it without you, we need you to walk with us. Overall, the statement was a presentation of a full diagnosis of what troubles the ANC and a demonstration that the organisation now has a formula to deal with any internal challenge. It is important to mention that the statement by the president of the ANC was not the full version of the NEC statement. Perhaps it would have been better for critics to first familiarise themselves with a full version of the statement before making any public comments. The following analysis is made after reading the full version of the NEC statement. On celebrating Tambo The ANC s idea of using its birthday to celebrate one of the movement s respected leaders, OR Tambo, was a good one, it was a way of sending a message that the party still subscribes to the founding values of the movement. The statement also delivers a silent message to those who call themselves members of the ANC, but quickly retreat and attack the ANC from the outside when things are getting tougher. This silent message is hidden in the president s reminder to everybody that, Tambo led the movement during most difficult times under conditions of extreme oppression and persecution. What is happening now in the ANC cannot be compared with the period when Tambo was leading. However, he remained resolute, the message implied. The NEC statement s reference to the 1969 period before Morogoro Conference and how Tambo managed the situation is one outstanding part of the statement which must not be taken lightly. There was a reason for the NEC to include this part, which is more educational to those who think that current challenges in the movement are new. The message here is that what is happening in the ANC is nothing compared to what the ANC experienced before the Morogoro Conference in 1969. However, under the leadership of Tambo, the ANC was able to use the conference to correct itself and emerged from the conference even stronger. It is the same ANC that established itself as a force that managed to topple the most notorious and vicious regime in the world, the Nationalist Party government. What can the ANC learn from the history of the Morogoro Conference? The answer is simple, now that the NEC members are beginning to sing from the same hymn book and the alliance partners have confirmed their support for the ANC, the December conference becomes crucial for the rebuilding of the ANC. All members of the ANC and the alliance partners should start preparing to go to the conference with one goal of self-correction and mending differences. If the ANC can jump this hurdle, the issue of who should lead the party will resolve itself. Like the Bible says, Seek the Kingdom of God first and everything shall be given to you. The NEC statement is clear in pointing out that the time for comrades who lack ideological and political clarity is over. The absence of these poses a challenge where some ANC and alliance members tend to think that the ANC is only about positions. The ANC s priority should be the advancement of strategic objectives of the NDR of which ideological and political clarity become crucial. On policy issues Apart from mentioning the progress made and what still needs to be done in implementing ANC policies, the statement of the NEC is on point in covering many issues, which the ANC is accused of not paying attention. These include issues of land expropriation, free education for the poor and working class, creation of entrepreneurs and jobs by supporting SMMEs and cooperatives, overt heinous racist acts and discrimination and radical economic transformation. This is once again indicative of an organisation that received a wake-up call from its electorate and yielded the call. On unity of the organisation It is understandable why some media houses, some opposition parties, some analysts and ANC detractors chose to interpret the unity part of the NEC statement in their own ways, which are different from what the statement actually meant. It is because the statement mentions everything that they do not want to hear or see happening in the ANC. Our media and analysts believe that, divisions are good in the ANC because if the ANC becomes weaker, opposition parties will then be able to challenge and oust the ANC. In their view, such a move will mean that democracy is in action in South Africa but they are completely missing the point. What South Africa requires is a strong ANC and a strong opposition party to emerge and challenge the ANC politically. That is democracy in action. Not a fragmented ANC and weak opposition parties, which amalgamate with no political agenda and hope to unseat the ruling party through insults, courts and disruptions. In the NEC statement the president of the ANC is referring to this challenge when he says: The conduct of some elected representatives in Parliament, various legislatures and other platforms illustrate that the various political parties seem to be unable to disagree without such disagreements descending into ugly and immature displays. The acceptance by the party that it is aware that people are complaining that they are too busy fighting among themselves at people s expense should be applauded because it demystifies the myth that the ANC does not listen to the people. The president s quote of revered Isaac Dyoba who perished aboard the SS Mendi in the statement is not a mistake, it is an indication of the extent to which committed ANC members should go in defending it. In order to address role confusion, which led to the expulsion of former youth leadership who are now leaders of the EFF and to ensure that the organisation is a newly-oiled machine the NEC statement focuses on role clarification. The statement gives ANC progeny ANCYL, ANCWL and MKMV clear marching orders and clarif ies their role in the organisation. It is a good thing for the president to clarify the role of the youth league of today, when he said, The youth of today are more connected to each other and the world with the advance of communications and information technology. They are therefore more informed about local and global events and the ANCYL must attract young activists from all sectors to strengthen our movement. This is important because it silences those who keep saying that the ANC of today has changed, it is no longer conducting itself like the old ANC. The president was in fact saying the ANC cannot be able to tackle the challenges of today if it is stuck in the past. Time moves quickly and the youth need to move with time. While the youth are expected to subscribe to the values of the ANC and preserve the Tambo legacy, they cannot afford to conduct their business like the old youth of the ANC. Back then there was no technology, today there is technology, social media and other modern enablers which makes it easy to connect with the world and advance the strategic objectives of the NDR. In short, it is not a bad thing for the ANC to change with time. The emphasis on the importance of strengthening individual alliance partners in order to elongate the alliance durability is one of important aspect of the NEC statement. It puts alliance partners and their supporters at ease, any suspicion that the ANC harbours intentions of swallowing all alliance partners in the ANC is now dispelled. The NEC s January statement restores hope to the people of South Africa that the ANC is still their hope, their movement still listens to them and that there is no political party in South Africa which is ready to challenge the ANC. What remains to be seen is whether the ANC lives up to the commitments it made in its January 8 statement.Sibusiso Nhlangothi is a senior government employee and a political analyst, writing in his personal capacity