AFTER producing arguably one of their best performances of recent years, the Spar Proteas senior national team have reason to believe they can match the top netball nations of the world. The Proteas narrowly missed out on a historic victory on Saturday, losing 60-55 to England in a Quad Series match that went to overtime.The match, played in Durban, had finished even at 48-48 after regulation time with the home side surprising the English by coming back strong in the second half. Taking an early lead in the match, the Proteas then lost control and were trailing 27-17 at the interval. Sensing danger, coach Norma Plummer made two tactical changes by replacing stand-in captain Bongi Msomi with Izette Lubbe and Renske Stoltz with Lindie Lombard.The changes proved to be successful as they brought life back into the hosts attack. England were left with no answers as South Africa closed the gap and even took the lead at various stages of the match. But the Proteas lost momentum in overtime and England went on to win the match. Plummer was pleased with the performance and feels her side can do better against top-ranked Australia in their second match of the series tomorrow. How can I be disappointed with that defeat? The players have come along in leaps and bounds. That 11-goals turnaround was pretty good.You don t get that too often and I thought they were outstanding, she said. This is the first time that we played a team in the top-three rankings and we got them into overtime. They were never in that position before, so we have to admire what they did. The Proteas now face Australia with the belief they can cause an upset. Australia defeated New Zealand 57-50 in the series opening match also on Saturday. Watching their game against New Zealand, I don t think they had a cracking match, it was just okay, Plummer said. I don t think the sharpness was there that we normally know with those teams. But Australia got their win and now we have to go out there and produce our best. We ve got nothing to lose, we put ourselves in this competition. We don t want to play teams underneath us in the rankings. We want to challenge those at the top and this is the only way that these players will understand what it is to be in the crunch when the pressure is on and get the win. nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza