&nbsp;Patricia de Lille has resigned as the Democratic Alliance(DA) leader in the Western Cape. Speaking to ANN7 on Monday , De Lille said the party needs to introduce a younger generation as they are not only the present but also the future for the party. We do have to make way for them to come through but we as a collective, we work as a team and as a team we will continue to deliver the best services, said the Cape Town Mayor. De Lille, who remains the Mayor of Cape Town, confirmed the news on Monday posting her resignation letter, addressed to party leader Mmusi Maimane, on social media. She said she would continue to support the new leadership in any way that she could. I think that the province is ready for fresh ideas and fresh leadership from a new generation that will challenge us and take us to new places in order to increase our support as the party enters the next phase of its evolution she wrote in the letter. The City of Cape Town mayor thanked the people in the province for electing her as their leader, stressing that the two thirds majority she received in the 2016 local government elections has added more pressure. She said that in her two year tenure they &#8220;reached out to both traditional and non-traditional voters and managed to increase our support across the board, making this party a home for everyone in the province. De Lille professed that she believes that she was able to meet the objectives she had campaigned on but stated that she cannot view these achievements in isolation from her role in local government. Admittedly she said that the responsibility of a two thirds majority in the province is weighing heavy on her. This result is a massive endorsement of the DA&#8217;s record in the government of Cape Town but is also a tremendous responsibility,&#8221; De Lille said. She however did not want to rule out running for Premier of the province. &#8220;You don t need to be a leader of the province to run for premier, the DA has got open processes where people can apply and make themselves available , so if approached in 2019 I will certainly consider it then but for now my full attention is on the City of Cape Town, she said. She said there weren t any other reasons for her resignation, adding that her governance responsibilities are weighing heavily on her, choosing to use her mandate to ensure she takes the city to further heights. I want to assure you that there is absolutely no secondary agenda it is because I want to put my time and my passion for the City of Cape Town to better use, De Lille said. TNA Reporter