The Ritchie business incubator project which was established by the Sol Plaatje municipality has stopped operations and non-payment of electricity bills have been blamed for the breakdown.Operations ground to a halt last year when Eskom stopped channelling power to the incubator, forcing small businesses to close shop.Resident Pete Matlhako said for most of last year the premises had remained vacant with some shop owners coming in and out of the premises, hoping that the electricity would be re-installed. There were countless business people operating here including a hairdresser, a driving school, an insurance company, a bakery and a funeral parlour, he said.When The New Age visited the premises, it was still in good condition except for one broken window and no electricity.Matlhako said he hoped something would be done to resolve the electricity issue and get businesses going before criminals vandalised the place. There is no security guard there and I said I would not mind working as a security guard because I live right across from the centre. But they refused. They have a cleaner who opens the gate in the morning and leaves again in the afternoon, he said.Matlhako said his brother was one of the beneficiaries of the incubation centre and had a business in the centre but had to move out due to the electricity issue. He is now operating from his house because he was afraid that the same people who broke the window, will come back and steal his things, he said.A cleaner at the centre who didn t want to be named, said the municipality had already paid the electricity owed to Eskom.Trying to defend the centre she said it was operational and the Eskom situation had been resolved.However, she could not explain why the premises were locked and only opened on request by any of the business owners.Eskom spokesperson Stephanie Jansen van Rensburg said Eskom provided electricity directly to Ritchie even though it was part of the Sol Plaatje municipality. Regarding the business incubation centre which is now owned by the municipality, Van Rensburg said she was struggling to get more information on the centre but would come back to The New Age.Van Rensburg also said they would not give out any personal information of businesses or individuals due to a confidentiality clauses.Local councillor Bonisile Makhamba said they were still grappling with the challenges related to the functioning of the incubation centre.Makhamba said he came into office last year and was still coming to grips with the challenges. He said he spoke to the community about the challenges. We are trying to figure out whether it was the lack of payment by the municipality or whether it was because the business community were supposed to pay electricity or whether the rent money was supposed to be used to pay for electricity. It is a complex issue and we don t want to point fingers at this stage, he said.Makhamba said the Local Economic Development unit within the municipality should have full knowledge of what was going on. We still have to speak to the head of unit to discuss solutions and a way forward. The impact of closing shop has had a bad influence on the community because of the impact it had on the unemployment rate in Ritchie, he said.Makhamba said the lack of advertising was one of the challenges that led to the collapse of the centre and the disinterest by the business community. We hope to resolve these issues soon and have it up and running again, he said.In a public document issued by the Sol Plaatje local municipality, it said that the centre was to be run by a consultant until the contract was terminated and taken over by the municipality.The document stipulates that the centre was meant to have issued services such as mentorship, computer skills, bookkeeping, market access and support but unfortunately those services are not being rendered. We are understaffed at the centre and it is critical that we have support staff for the tenants and non-tenants. Makhamba said he wanted to see the centre fully operational again. I cannot give time frames but I want business people in my community to be empowered and get the same opportunities as people living in Kimberley, he said.NOMUSA MVUBUnomusam@thenewage.co.za