Low and middle-income countries have far fewer tobacco regulations than high-income countries and are paying the price with bigger health and economic impacts.Yet, according to new wide-ranging research published by the World Health Organization (WHO), tobacco companies are misleading governments, telling them that tobacco regulations will potentially harm their economies. The research was compiled in a new monograph titled The Economics of Tobacco and Tobacco Control, published jointly by the WHO and the National Cancer Institute of the US-based National Institutes of Health.Frank Chaloupka, who edited the monograph, said that when low- and middle-income countries do implement regulations, there is usually a much bigger pay-off. We present some new evidence in the monograph on tobacco advertising bans that shows they have a bigger effect in low- and middle-income countries than they do in high-income countries, Chaloupka, who is also distinguished professor of economics and public health at the University of Illinois, said. Tobacco advertising bans have a bigger effect in low- and middle-income countries than they do in high-income countries, Chaloupka said. I think it s partly because of the fact that in a lot of low- and middle-income countries they haven t been exposed to the same information about the health consequences of tobacco use, people are more susceptible to the industry s positive portrayals of tobacco, he said.For example, says Chaloupka, graphic warning labels have proven more effective in low- and middle-income countries. People can really see the damage caused by tobacco through the graphic warnings. For those who have had less exposure to these warnings from other sources of information, the warnings have an even bigger impact.Taxes on tobacco sales in low and middle countries also have a bigger impact than in high-income countries, Chaloupka said. Given people s lower incomes, people are more responsive to changes in the price, he said.There are several reasons why low- and middle-income countries have less tobacco regulations than high-income countries, said Chaloupka, but one problematic cause is misleading arguments made by the industry: The industry s arguments around things like illicit trade, impact on jobs and the broader economic impact, the impact on the poor, the impact on their tax revenues, really the economic arguments that the industry uses against tobacco control are really misleading, and for the most part, false. This has contributed to a widening gap between regulations in low and middle-income versus high-income countries.The gap has also widened because of how quickly high-income countries moved to implement control measures: We ve seen governments get serious and really take action and adopt strong tobacco control measures, push up taxes, ban smoking in public places, ban tobacco marketing as a result we ve seen tobacco use falling for at least a few decades in most high-income countries. While some low- and middle-income countries may lack the capacity to implement complex regulations, Chaloupka said that often simpler policies can be more effective. The Philippines had a complicated tax system where we had different rates on different brands, he said. Over time they moved toward a significant reform in their system and they re in the process of moving to a single uniform tax which is a lot easier to administer and much better at deterring tax avoidance and tax evasion. Chaloupka said that Turkey has successfully regulated tobacco use.Lyndal Rowlands is an IPS correspondentLyndal Rowlands