African Union (AU) Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma could add a feather to her legacy if she sees through tough negotiations for Morocco s return to the AU.Morocco s potential readmission process into the AU began in July when the north African country submitted its formal request to rejoin the union.However, the process has been rocky and proceedings tough to negotiate.Morocco said if it was allowed into the union, it would be willing to offer autonomy to the disputed territory of Western Sahara, provided that it remained under Moroccan sovereignty.Morocco left the AU in 1984 in protest of the union s recognition of the Western Sahara as a member state.Morocco is the only African country that is not an AU member.In a message to the AU Summit in Rwanda in July, Moroccan King Mohammed VI said: The time had come for this country to retake its place within its institutional family. On reflection, it has become clear to us that when a body is sick, it is treated more effectively from the inside than from the outside. Morocco firmly believes in the wisdom of the AU and its ability to restore legality and correct mistakes along the way. However, tough negotiations lie ahead as Dlamini Zuma has in the past reiterated the AU s support of Western Sahara s independence.South Africa and the ANC have strong links with Western Sahara. While the ANC, and by extension Dlamini Zuma, claims support for the AU s vision of an institutionally unified Africa, the party has emphasised its debt to Western Sahara for its role in the anti-apartheid struggle.A senior ANC official said: We want Morocco back in the fold as this will benefit the continent.The north African country has established itself as a major economic force. But South Africa also strongly supports Western Sahara s bid for independence. Western Sahara President Brahim Ghali made his first visit to South Africa early this month and met with President Jacob Zuma.Commenting on the issue, Clayton Monyela, spokesperson of Department of International Relations, said the matter would be discussed at the next AU meeting.Pan African Business Forum executive chairperson Ladislas Agbesi said they had been lobbying for a win-win resolution to the situation.The Kingdom of Morocco has expanded its economic ties with many countries on the continent since it left the AU, mainly through trade and investments.Medi Benzaid, president of the Moroccan parliament committee on foreign affairs, told The New Age that Morocco would play a significant role on the continent as it would add value to the AU. It s important for Morocco to rejoin the AU. We believe in working together, he said. Morocco will share its experiences, which will help create economic value for the continent. Benzaid said Morocco was a perfect fit for AU programmes to fight poverty and various other social ills plaguing the continent.SAMUEL MUNGADZEsamuelm@thenewage.co.za