&nbsp;Having lost the T20 series to Sri Lanka on Wednesday, the spotlight shifts to the ODI format with the Proteas looking to bounce back to winning ways.Sri Lanka, who lost the Test series 3-0, showed a different side in the shortest format of the game and will have gained valuable momentum ahead of the ODI series. The Proteas fielded an inexperienced side in the T20 series but will have their key players back for the ODI series.Hashim Amla, Quinton de Kock, Kagiso Rabada, JP Duminy and Vernon Philander will return to boost the Proteas after being rested for the T20 series. After a poor performance in the final T20 in Cape Town where they dropped seven catches, the Proteas will be determined to strike back quickly.But it won t be easy against the tourists, who are a vastly different team in the short format. Proteas stand-in T20 captain Farhaan Behardien admitted that they hadn t played well in Cape Town, losing by five wickets. Dropped catches cost us. It was very frustrating. It s stuff that you can t really prepare for, Behardien said. We let ourselves down in the field and gave them the momentum and took it away from our bowlers. I can t put it down to any sort of reason. It was just one of those nights. The Proteas were also not helped by a hip injury to star bowler Lungi Ngidi, who left the field after delivering just two overs.. As a result, Behardien had to turn to JJ Smuts to bowl two overs at the death. It complicated things quite a lot.He s been our star bowler in the first two T20s. He was a massive loss for us. He s a strike bowler who gets wickets when called upon and that was a tough blow for us. Ngidi will miss the ODI match in Port Elizabeth tomorrow but might be available for the remaining matches of the series.Proteas coach Russell Domingo also admitted that their fielding will need to be better in the ODI matches. We have fielded superbly in the last couple of months, Domingo said. The guys have put in the effort. Maybe the occasion for one or two of the younger players was too much. Maybe it was just a bit big for them. Hopefully they would have learnt from that. There are a lot of positives to take from the match in Cape Town. You never want to lose these type of series and that s what is tough, but there are positives. Neville Khoza| nevillek@thenewage.co.za