The KwaZulu-Natal health department is forging ahead with the implementation of its medication distribution programme that will see people with chronic diseases such as HIV and Aids being able to pick up their medication in areas close to their homes.Unlike in the past when patients needing medication for non-communicable ailments such as diabetes, hypertension, high blood pressure and HIV could only collect the medication from department facilities such as clinics and hospitals, patients will now be able to collect their medication at local churches and council offices.Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo said the programme would save people on chronic medication time and resources. With the implementation of central chronic medication dispensing and distribution there is little need for patients to collect medicine at the hospital, Dhlomo said. This model is for chronic stable patients who have been on treatment for a long time and do not require anything more from the health service. The programme will go a long way at addressing the problem of long queues at clinics and public hospitals. It is agreed internationally that efficient health systems do not require patients to come to hospitals to collect their chronic medicines as many alternative sources for chronic medicines supply in the community can be used. Patients would be informed via SMS once their medication has been dropped for collection. The package is delivered to a mutually acceptable collection point which we call the pickup point. Patients are offered the opportunity to collect their chronic medicines at a point that is mutually convenient. The new system will also make it possible for relatives of patients who are to weak to walk to a pickup point to collect medication on their behalf. Community care givers are able to collect for their patients in line with their itinerary and clinic arrangements with the patient who is not able to visit the clinic. The patients have an opportunity to register the particulars of the relative/treatment buddy who can collect the medication on their behalf should they not be able to collect it themselves. Clive Ndouprovinces@thenewage.co.za