&nbsp;Just months after becoming the first South African coach to guide a team to CAF Champions League glory, Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane could tonight secure the African coach of the year crown. The prestigious CAF Awards will take place in Abuja, Nigeria tonight. The former Bafana Bafana coach is up against some of the continent s top coaches such as Florent Ibenge from DR Congo, Uganda and former Orlando Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic, Nacer Sandjak of Algeria and Super Falcons coach Florence Omagbemi. If Mosimane is to be named coach of the year tonight, he will also become the first South African to win the prestigious award. Mosimane had previously refused to get overly excited by the nomination, fearing that whoever wins the Africa Cup of Nations will get the award. It is hard to think I can take it because it is normally given to someone who wins Afcon. The coach of Zambia (Herve Renard) won it twice because he guided Zambia and Ivory Coast to the Africa Cup of Nations. We will go see, Mosimane had said. Following his ground-breaking 10th place ranking by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics, where he is the only African in the top 10 of coaches, Mosimane has become the favourite to land the award, especially since the awards are taking place some 10 days before the 2017 Afcon in Gabon. That puts the 52-yearold coach from Kagiso, who is chased by Egyptian side Zamalek, in a better position to win the award. Even with the ranking, Mosimane refuses to believe that he could bring it home, choosing to focus on the team of the year title that Sundowns are nominated for. I am humbled by the awards that we have been nominated for as a team. You look at players like Khama Billiat and Denis Onyango, they have been winning awards in their countries. I am mainly looking at the team of the year award. That is the one I really want. For me, being nominated for this award on the continent against top coaches is an achievement in itself, Mosimane said. Sundowns goalkeeper Denis Onyango and midfielder Khama Billiat are up against TP Mazembe s Rainford Kalaba for the African player of the year award for players based on the continent. The main player of the year award will be contested by the Europe-based trio of Gabon and Borussia Dortmund striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Algeria and Leicester City mercurial playmaker Riyad Mahrez and the powerful Sadio Man , who plays for Senegal and Liverpool. MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE |mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za