THE Northern Cape department of education is negotiating to expand the information and communications technology (ICT) resources coverage to the 291 remaining schools.The education media liaison officer for the MEC, Geoffrey van der Merwe, said 75% of the schools in the province were covered. We have provisioned all 545 schools in the Northern Cape with a 3G card for administration of which 75% of schools are covered, Van der Merwe said.He said ICT resources would be easy tools to assist teachers and pupils with research. Given the dynamics and vast distances across our beautiful province, it becomes imperative for us as a department to equip all our schools with ICT resources to serve as a research point for both teachers and pupils. The department said ICT would provide pupils with access to information and an effective learning opportunity. It also affords teachers access to specialised resources and networks of support. It further provides an opportunity for educators to sharpen their ICT skills and promote e-Learning. According to research conducted by Prof Elias Mathipa, ICT has the potential to revolutionise the quality of education, but the availability of ICT infrastructure in schools is futile if teachers lack the knowledge and the skills to use these instruments to deliver their subject matter and to engage pupils through ICT . Although Van der Merwe said there were programmes run for teachers just to ensure they understood the basics and regulations of ICT, few community members were urging the government to hire teachers with expertise to ensure the rollout of such projects did not end up being white elephants.Nkululeko Shongwe said the government also needed to empower the teachers so that they could impart skills to the pupils. Nothing will change if the right people for jobs are sitting at home and the teachers are old and conservative, Shongwe said. In terms of connectivity for teaching and learning, we provided computer labs, interactive white boards, connectivity and content to 254 schools, mostly in rural schools in the province with the support of all our strategic partners, Van der Merwe said.Department of Education Minister Enver Surty said the department had a teacher resource centre which provided training and internet access for pupils and the surrounding community at large. More than 50% of all schools in the Northern Cape are equipped with these ICT centres which provide pupils and teachers a valuable learning experience, he said. Surty said the programme is much needed by the pupils to better their computer skills and could contribute significantly to the pass rate in the province .Van der Merwe said: We believe ICT in our schools will equip our pupils with the skills our job market requires and will guarantee them success. The MEC of education, Martha Bartlett, said pupils should use the facilities brought to them to their full capacity with a key focus on sharpening their skills in all subjects. Our pupils must use new technology to communicate ideas, describe projects and arrange information. Pupils are expected to use these computers in all aspects of their work, Bartlett said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANE