Hashim Amla marked his 100th Test for the Proteas with a well-timed return to form by becoming only the second South African batsman and the eighth overall to score a century on the special occasion.With a classy 125 not out, the soft spoken voice of calmness in the SA dressing room, will deservedly steal the limelight. A brilliant 292 run record partnership against Sri Lanka with JP Duminy, who fell on 155 in the penultimate over of the day, helped to put the Proteas in the driving seat on the first day of the third Test at Bidvest Wanderers yesterday. The former Proteas Test captain has now joined an elite list featuring the likes of legendary Australian Ricky Ponting and Proteas great and another former captain, Graeme Smith. After Duminy s demise, Amla was joined by night watchman and debutant Duanne Olivier, who was yet to trouble the scorers at stumps. Amla and Duminy came together with a score of 45 for two after early wickets in successive overs had rewarded Sri Lanka for some testing bowling in helpful conditions. From the onset, Duminy chose to be positive, happy to drive whenever the ball was pitched up, despite the bounce on the surface. His approach allowed Amla to take his time and find his form as he attempted to celebrate his personal landmark with an innings of similar magnitude. The 33 year old was clearly his old self again by the time he had reached the half century. Still, Amla was given a lifeline when he was dropped in the slips when he was on six and there is no doubt Sri Lanka will be thinking about that chance as Amla went on to score his 26th Test century. Having been cautious in the early stages of his knock, Amla was flowing freely after tea and he swiftly moved to three figures as he shared in the monster partnership with Duminy. While the spotlight was on Amla, Duminy took the pressure off his batting partner and was responsible for taking the game away from The Lions by racing to his century in the final session. Duminy was aggressive in his play and scored freely yesterday as the Proteas recovered from their slow start, and was out for a magnificent 155 off 221 balls, with eight balls remaining before the close of play. Openers Dean Elgar and Stephen Cook had done well to see off the new ball, particularly against Lakmal, but couldn t withstand his replacement, Angelo Mathews. Mathews trapped Cook for 10 and then Lahiru Kumara, having waited for 14 overs for a chink in the armour, nipped out Elgar in his second over to leave SA 45/2 and in trouble. The Proteas will now resume on a comfortable 338/3 as they go about looking for a whitewash in the third and final Test, having already won the series. Amla and nightwatchman Olivier will resume this morning. NEVILLE KHOZA AND MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|sports@thenewage.co.za