Since it became public that the Trump transition team contacted the State Department s Africa bureau with a list of questions, my email has been flooded with queries and comments about the implications and impact of a Trump presidency for Africa.The questions highlighted in a recent New York Times article, in and of themselves, are not particularly alarming. But, having said that, I do appreciate the cause for concern. The questions posed by Trump s people were pretty basic: With so much corruption in Africa, how much of our funding is stolen? Why should we spend these funds on Africa when we are suffering here in the US? Why is the US even bothering to fight the Boko Haram insurgency in Nigeria? Why have all of the schoolgirls kidnapped by the group not been rescued? Are there terror operatives from Africa living in the US? And it questions the effectiveness of one of the more significant counterterrorism efforts on the continent. We ve been fighting al-Shabab for a decade, why haven t we won? Most of Agoa imports are petroleum products, with the benefits going to national oil companies, why do we support that massive benefit to corrupt regimes? We ve been hunting Kony for years, is it worth the effort? The LRA has never attacked US interests, why do we care? Is it worth the huge cash outlays? I hear that even the Ugandans are looking to stop searching for him, since they no longer view him as a threat. Why do we? Is Pepfar (President s Plan for Aids Relief) worth the massive investment when there are so many security concerns in Africa? Is Pepfar becoming a massive, international entitlement programme? How do we prevent the next Ebola outbreak from hitting the US? How does US business compete with other nations in Africa? Are we losing out to the Chinese? Let me start by saying I think this list of questions reflect a couple of things. First, the incoming Trump administration thinks about Africa the way most Americans do. Africa is a continent fraught with problems.Secondly, and this is the good news, categorically, the questions reflect the broad range of areas that we ought to be thinking about relative to Africa.That is, what are America s economic, humanitarian, and security interests on that continent. And, which policies and programmes have worked and which have not.As the Trump team takes up residence at the State Department, the issue is what are the implications of the questions they ve raised and what is the right response to the assumptions these questions reflect.Since the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa) was passed during the Clinton administration, US policy toward Africa has been much more comprehensive and nuanced, with George W Bush s Africa agenda being the most progressive. Bush extended Agoa, and introduced Pepar, the Millennium Challenge initiative, and Africom.Obama affirmed the Africa policies and programmes of previous Administrations and added good governance and leadership development to the mix. The questions posed by Trump s people don t seem to reflect a sense of this history. But, it is also fair to say, the queries from Trump s people are consistent with the incoming administration s propensity to reflexively challenge all conventional assumptions that have driven policy action and formulation on Capital Hill and the White House. What the Trump administration will find, and needs to know, is that Africa represents both an opportunity to continue to build stable multilateral relations throughout the world, advance US interests, and provide a balance point as it thinks through how it deals with Russia, China, and the rest of the world.Africa does matter in terms of our national security. Having served as the US ambassador to Tanzania in the aftermath of al-Qaeda bombing our embassies in Tanzania and Kenya, the answer to the questions about national security is that there are transnational security threats to American interest in Africa. And, as important, as we discovered in trying to track down those responsible for bombing our African embassies, we need African intelligence agencies in the fight against terrorism.On the economic front, beyond conventional commodities (like oil, gold, copper, coal, diamonds, and uranium) new age minerals like graphite are critical to the future growth of our economy.The number one producer of graphite in the world is China. Africa might well have the largest deposits in the world of this critical resource. It is an essential material for producing next generation batteries, like those being manufactured by Tesla.It is an important mineral in the manufacture of composites crucial to building the next generation of aircraft.We can t, and don t want to be, reliant on the Chinese for this critical new age mineral.Tanzania, which I know best, is an example of the challenges we face.There are over 200 companies prospecting in Tanzania: 22% are Australian, 14% are Chinese, and only 6% are American. Specific to the graphite sector, outside of my company, no other American companies are doing exploration in this space.There are other rare and strategic minerals like coltan , which is critical to the manufacture of smart phones, computers, and computers games, and that is mainly found in Africa. (The DRC accounts for close to 70% of the world s supply.)America needs to be exponentially more engaged in Africa to secure its place as the world s number one economy and to keep alive any possibility that it will be a manufacturing centre for the next generation of products needed to drive the 21st century high tech global economy.While the Trump administration could be interpreted as having isolationist tendencies, Americans, generally, speaking believe we have a role to play in response to international crisis and humanitarian disasters.Americans might debate and differ on specifics, but as George Bush noted in his response to the HIV-Aids crisis, for a nation and people like ours, those to whom much has been given, much is required. Most Americans proscribe to this basic biblical tenet. That is not to say that there aren t some practical reasons for our humanitarian efforts.Clearly, we have an interests that diseases with pandemic potential don t spread to our shores, but our response to global crisis is more than that. In this sense, I don t expect the Trump administration to be fundamentally different.When countries and communities around the world need help, the US (and the Trump administration) will respond. That is the American way.While the Trump administration s questions about Africa might seem narrowly focused, or ill informed, relative to our recent and long standing policies toward Africa, it doesn t need to be cause for alarm, at least in the short term.The way the questions were framed could simply be poorly crafted questions by a new administration, or new people treading on unfamiliar turf trying to find their way.Charles R Stith is a former US ambassador, educator, author and politician.Charles R Stith