Political manoeuvring has been the underlying methodology of the SABC inquiry.As the board deliberated on Thursday and Friday about the working document, which had been leaked, it should not be impugned that the leak could only have been an act of malicious intent.Questions have arisen over who may have leaked the document. Although some have suggested the DA, this has yet to be proven.Even though the ad hoc committee concluded such documents should be released to the public, the report was not complete and therefore could create unnecessary hype based on incomplete findings. For the public to make conclusions on an inconclusive report unfairly casts a negative light on the SABC and it s chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng who, so far, has been denied the right to respond.To suggest wasteful expenditure amounted to more than R5bn can easily be considered far-fetched by any intelligent mind and whether R5bn of wasteful expenditure can be proven is another matter entirely.Deliberations unfolded as recommendations and suggestions as to every aspect of the document bounced between minds. Some of the suggestions were arguably subjective.The first issue that arose was the fact that the most of the inquiry had been centred on Motsoeneng. Therefore, his not being allowed to speak and whether he should be invited to make a submission has been debated.MP Jabulani Mahlangu defended this notion, saying anyone who wished to suggest the inquiry was about Motsoeneng was being opportunistic and defended the decision to not have Motsoeneng present at the inquiry.On Thursday, one of the MPs said the ad hoc committee had held caucus meetings the night before, implying the other MPs had colluded as to how they would put forward the suggestions, proving the inquiry was potentially an act of political manoeuvring.A few hours later MP Fezeke Loliwe and Mahlangu suggested a clause be added to the working document stating their methodology, in what seemed a move to disprove any political manoeuvring. The request for this clause was approved by chairperson Vincent Smith.If anything, these actions have proven there is a sense of political manoeuvring at the inquiry. While Mahlangu and Loliwe were singing the same tune, MP Patrick Chauke differed strongly by maintaining his stance at the inquiry while intelligently assessing the document without jumping to observations and recommendations as the other MPs did.Loliwe said things had been added above and beyond the audit report, which caused tension between the MPs who seemed to fear someone would notice their interference. This point was contested by another MP, as they seemed unsure about the repercussions of Loliwe s point. The motives of the ad hoc committee seem dubious. The inquiry attempted to blame the Guptas for the governance issues of the SABC, trying to state speculation as fact.When speaking of recommendations for the leaked working document, MP Nqabayomzi Kwankwa said: We need to look into the Gupta rebranding and perhaps mention it was an attempt to capture the SABC. Another MP said: It is my recommendation that we should add that the committee has observed a possible state capture. DA spokesperson Phumzile Van Damme tried to implicate the Guptas through the unrelated issue of the non-executive board, spending almost an hour trying to convince others the Guptas are in some way guilty by picking and choosing so-called facts to suit her anti-Gupta agenda.The SABC has been an opportunity for parties interested in a coalition (as well as antiZuma MPs) to rally against the SABC, in an attempt to tarnish the image of the SABC and the ANC. The opposition parties have used the inquiry to collude against Zuma. Factional politics are behind the committee s agenda.The public outcry caused most of the nonexecutive board members to resign. By DA and anti-Zuma collaborators overseeing the process in deciding which board directors are appointed, they can exert influence over the highly valued state entity. As the SABC is a government entity, it should not, therefore, be under the control of opposition parties, or any other political party for that matter.Collusion against the ANC has reached uncharted heights as the ad hoc committee flaunts its power to influence the public against anyone who questions their inconclusive and questionable findings.Chelsea LotzChelsea Lotz is a writer and commentator