The enthusiastic and robust Ladislas Prosper Agbesi is a beacon of hope for Africa and embodies the true, progressive leader the continent yearns for.His love for a united Africa is unquestionable and the man tipped to become Benin s next president will go to any lengths to serve and save the continent.Agbesi is one of Africa s most successful entrepreneurs, having founded Lash Group of Companies, a finance, investment, trading, logistics and petroleum company headquartered in Johannesburg.His companies have a footprint across 10 African countries as well as western Europe and north America. However, his heartbeat remains to drive Africa out of its quandary and become the world s breadbasket that controls its resources. My vision is to make Africa a better place, I ve never doubted that this continent will be one of the greatest in a few years to come, he said with so much conviction. Such is his buoyancy.Understandably so, Agbesi started thinking of strategies on how to take the continent forward at a young age.He was born in Benin, but later moved to Ghana in search of greener pastures.But his journey was never a rosy one. Being one of the oldest boys in a family of 23 children, the 45 year old was faced with the responsibility of raising his siblings when his father retired. He was to take the big step and cross into Ghana. Benin was a country of revolution and the IMF was not too kind to our economy and a lot of people went to Europe, but I had no such option. Ghana was the only place for me because some of our relatives were there, he explains.He recalls how he only had $20 (R272) in his pocket when he crossed into Ghana, with the hope that a friend would host him, but that was not to be. I ended up sleeping on the roadside, he said.Yet, being the determined man he is, he worked his socks off and was able to get himself into school.Coming from a French background, Agbesi had to quickly learn English in Ghana, a move that would later come in handy for the Johannesburg-based entrepreneur.Months into his studies in Ghana, he got his first leadership assignment as president of the Foreign Students group. I demonstrated some kind of leadership skills which impacted a lot of people, he said.After completing his studies, Agbesi worked for Masai Developers as a risk manager. He later co-founded the Coalition for the Reinforcement of Investment for Africa (CRIA).The organisation was later renamed to become the Pan African Business Forum (PABF), which he leads as executive chairperson and runs from South Africa. The idea was to craft a good programme, alleviate poverty and move away from the fight for independence of African great leaders like Nkrumah and Mandela. We realised there had to be a new era of economic revolution, he said.Among other things, the forum seeks to facilitate regional integration, policy advocacy and attract foreign direct investment as well as create a good environment for investors on the continent. We need to reshape the way governments work. In the next 40 years, GDP of Africa will be $18.5 trillion ahead of America. Africa can be the basket for the world and jobs could be created, Agbesi said.The forum has set its sights on launching the ground-breaking Pan-African Fund of $500bn (R6.7 trillion) for development and regional projects. The money is not going to come from Europe, it will come from Africans. We passed a proposal through the AU that each country needs to collect $1 from civil servants to assist infrastructure in Africa. Each year the minister of finance will make sure that money is made available. Part of the strategy is that west Africa will be headquartered in Nigeria while Kenya will be the headquarters for east Africa with north Africa s being in Egypt. SADC will be housed in South Africa. If you look at each of those countries, we have close to $3.5bn if people remit $1, he said.Agbesi believes only 15% of Africa s natural resources have been tapped.He was actively involved in campaigning for the outgoing Africa Union (AU) Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma in the build up to the AU elections. We were worried that if we don t influence the AU to propel our vision we wouldn t be able to do it. So we sought for a strong woman to run the AU. Dlamini Zuma had the character and charisma. She s the only transparent woman and understands corporate governance, foreign policy and immigration law as she was home affairs minister. She also understands health issues from her time as health minister, he said.Agbesi believes she has proven her pedigree at the AU and has made many changes. She reformed the whole administration and achieved the mandate of the children, passports and found a way to deal with conflict. She was able to give a new face to the AU, she is everywhere, and has great partnerships with Asia and the EU, Agbesi said.He is convinced Dlamini Zuma is the ideal next leader for South Africa. If South Africans want to do justice, they should look at her credentials. They should give her the chance. In fact, when she returns from the AU, President Jacob Zuma must do the right thing and appoint her second vice-president, he said.Agbesi himself is confident that he will win the next Benin presidential election. In four years time, I will be the president of Benin, no question about it, it s not something to even negotiate, he said.He is also upbeat that the reforms he will make will have an impact. The far-sighted leader likens Dubai 25 years ago to Limpopo, stressing it is possible to turn Benin around. Dubai was more like Limpopo, but people came with a great mind. They put a vision in place and they turned it around. He regards the transformation of his country s economy as the key to giving his people a much better quality of life than they enjoy now.Agbesi says he has closely studied how the ANC has achieved social justice and better economic fortunes for South Africans and is looking to apply key lessons from it.Ironically, his party, Alliance of a New Congress, is also abbreviated ANC and shares the ideals of its existence with South Africa s ruling party.He has people managing his social media accounts in Benin that he uses to stay in touch with his party s followers. From March, I ll start doing interviews monthly to show the people of Benin that I do have an interest in my country s affairs, he said.Agbesi praises South African President Zuma, describing him as a family man, a true Africanist, cultural person, loyal and someone who understands Africa and loves people. After Polokwane, we saw the SACP and Cosatu take up key Cabinet positions for the first time and it was all because of his leadership. Zuma understands the ANC is bigger than him and he demonstrated that when two heads of state approached him to persuade him to discourage Dlamini Zuma from standing for the AU chairperson job. He told them the ANC had made the decision and he could not act contrary to it, he said.Agbesi hopes he will be equally successful if he wins the ticket to run Benin the same way he has done well with business. He runs successful businesses in oil and gas, logistics, property business and investments. We ve done a lot on the continent, we indirectly employ 500000 people. We ve participated in major infrastructure projects, he said.His company is behind a Benin-Nigeria railway project. If you give me $20m today, I will be asking for R1000 in two weeks time because I have a use for it, he jokingly says.But he is aware that when he falls, he tumbles too deep and hard. And Agbesi values relationships and says he has built strong friendships.He also says he has a strong support system in his wife, Jasmine, and four children. I ve a beautiful wife, who is a blessing to me and, together with my children, they give me joy and support in times of difficulties. My son keeps telling me daddy, don t worry, God is with you . Agbesi is a believer and says he depends on God for guidance in anything he does.His ingenuity has earned him several accolades, and one he quickly points to in his office was given to him by Dubai s minister of economy. He gave me this award for my efforts in aviation. They don t do it because your name is Ladislas, but because of your quality, he said.In 2015, he was awarded three honorary doctorates from three universities in Ghana, Spain and the US.During his spare moments, Agbesi spends time with his family to unwind and plays social soccer with friends. Family time is the most important for me. I also do gym, go to church three times a week and play soccer on Fridays. Then I give time to my family, Agbesi said.He does not drink alcohol and stresses the importance of taking good care of himself.He also does a lot of reading on leadership, development and business material.He singles out Think And Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill as one of his constant reads.The ambitious Africanist says former South Africa president Thabo Mbeki s book I Am An African inspired him the most. We were very young and we looked at it and wondered what it carried but what he wrote has been implemented by the ANC government, he says. With such willpower, Agbesi is ready to take Africa to the next level and believes Benin will be the trigger to shoot the continent to new levels.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za