Calls for an investigation into whether Absa benefited from an apartheid-era bailout gained momentum on Monday with more organisations supporting the idea of an official inquiry by the public protector.The outcry emanated from a leaked preliminary report of public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, which found that the apartheid government breached the constitution by supplying Bankorp, which was acquired by Absa in 1992, with a series of bailouts from 1985 to 1995.Absa, which is owned by British bank Barclays, has been called on to repay R2.25bn. Transparency organisation Right- 2Know yesterday joined the chorus calling on Absa to pay up and demanding further investigation into apartheidera corruption.The group said the probe was a delayed investigation into apartheid-era looting condoned by the Reserve Bank. The public protector s preliminary findings are that Absa should pay up to R2.25bn back to the public purse. Not only is the public protector s report much delayed, but the saga itself has drawn out since the 1990s, when the Reserve Bank first had an opportunity to fully recover the apartheid-era loans from Absa, Right2Know said.The organisation said the saga underscores how little had been done to uncover apartheid-era corruption and return the proceeds of economic crimes. It is a reminder that two decades into democracy, we still have yet to see the full release of apartheid-era secrets. Millions of documents from the apartheid regime are still held by government departments across the board and have yet to be released to the public, the organisation said.Parliament s standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) said the investigation was a step in the right direction in exposing many apartheid-era crimes. There are many other cases that we believe should have been investigated. The public protector needs everybody s support, Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said. The ANC Women s League and Black First Land First have also called on Mkhwebane to conduct a full-scale investigation into apartheid-era state looting.The league urged the public protector to launch a full-scale investigation into previous reports on apartheid looting done by UK-based asset recovery company CIEX, so that all those implicated could be brought to book. All beneficiaries of this looting must pay in full, the league said. Black First Land First believes other companies also benefited from apartheid looting. A report was submitted to former president Thabo Mbeki as part of the CIEX investigation, which traced R26bn stolen by apartheid leaders and placed offshore, a Black First Land First representative said.-Samuel Mungadze|samulm@thenewage.co.za