One of the leading ANC figures in the province, Mahlakeng Mahlakeng, is confident that the ruling party will emerge stronger after going through a rough patch last year.Mahlakeng said factional tendencies had to be addressed as a matter of priority and bring back unity to the movement. The ANC is the only movement that understands the mandate of the people, Mahlakeng said . However, many of our leaders seem to be ignoring the mandate of the party. We will constantly remind them about the party s objective. We know we have not achieved some of the things depicted in the Freedom Charter but we cannot do that all at once. Our fundamental approach is to achieve the national democratic revolution. We need to create job opportunities, address poverty, unemployment and inequality. We believe that what happened in last year s local government elections was an eye-opener. We will remain the servants of the people and continue to address their challenges. Reflecting on his political journey, the current Scopa provincial chairperson said life was tough under apartheid. I was also subjected to abuse by the apartheid regime, Mahlakeng said. Many people were thrown in jail for opposing the apartheid government. We were given significantly worse treatment than actual criminals. I was born in Meadowlands, Soweto in 1961, however, I was forced to relocate to Lesotho at a young age because of political unrest in the country. I came back later after finishing my matric. I joined the mines and became an integral member of NUM. The agile member said he worked with the likes of ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe who was the national organiser for NUM during that time. I became politically involved because of the living conditions that we were subjected to. We were treated like criminals even at our workplace. I led a massive strike at mines in 1992. One could not ignore the exploitation we were subjected to. I was recruited by uMkhonto we Sizwe in 1988 and carried certain responsibilities. The aim was to destabilise the apartheid government and make the country ungovernable. I will not go into details regarding some of our responsibilities though, he said.Mahlakeng was also part of the Sanco and a member of the UDF. We addressed various civic issues through these organisations.There was a law called Common Purpose bestowed on me. Some of my comrades were sentenced to death by the apartheid regime simply because we were seen together. We decided to establish the Save A Patriot campaign which was a sub-structure under Cosatu. We also worked with Robert McBride who was also an active member of the movement, he said.Mahlakeng said they established a campaign that called for the release of the late president, Nelson Mandela, from prison. He further said he did not go to work for a week during that time after he heard that Mandela would be released. We were grateful and breathed a sigh of relief. We knew that freedom had come. I became the regional secretary of the ANC in Meadowlands in 1992 after the apartheid regime unbanned the party. I led close to 30000 members. We re-grouped as the party s members and came up with strategic plans on how we would throttle the apartheid government. We were grateful when the former president, FW de Klerk, said the country will hold its first democratic elections, he said.The veteran politician further said their objectives were to win the elections and change the lives of the masses forever. Remember, many families were left dejected by the apartheid regime. The apartheid government sentenced many compatriots to death simply because they participated in strikes. Some of the activists could be found and that left a hole in many people s hearts. I then moved to the province in 1997 where I served as the provincial executive committee member. I then joined the North West Provincial Legislature where I served in various committees. I also chaired numbers of them before I was appointed as the MEC for public works and roads, Mahlakeng said.As the Scopa provincial chairperson, Mahlakeng said he enjoyed working to enforce accountability. I love my work and we are working closely with the auditor-General of South Africa (AGSA). Our job description is to ensure that there is accountability. All the executives in the provincial government come and account. Accountability is very key because people want to know how their tax money was spent. AGSA does the auditing and brings forward the information. We make recommendations afterwards. We also believe that the province is on the right track in addressing the inequality and injustices of our people, he said.OBAKENG MAJE