Parliament s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) has weighed in on the issue around the public protector s comments that Absa should pay back more than R2bn to the people of South Africa stemming from an alleged bailout of the bank by the apartheid government.The bank could be forced to pay R2.25bn if public protector Busi Mkhwebane s suggested remedial actions become enforceable. Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said the move was the first step in exposing many apartheid-era cases that should have been investigated. We think it is a good start. There are many other cases that we believe should have been investigated and have not been. The public protector needs everybody s support to get to the bottom of this. Absa has confirmed it would challenge the report s findings and recommendations.The bank said the leaked public protector report on an apartheid-era bailout for the then Bankorp creates an incorrect impression. Back in the mid 80s South African Reserve Bank R300m rescue package to Bankorp when it was in financial distress, a move against the provisions of the SARB Act in 1992 on the eve of Absa s takeover. It is alleged the SARB lent it a further R1.5bn at a lowly interest rate of 1% per annum when it wasn t permitted to do so.In a radio interview on Friday, advocate Paul Hoffman, the whistleblower who raised the issue, said: More than R1.5bn of SA taxpayers money could be recovered from Absa by virtue of the fact that Absa bought the then Bankcorp in 1992. Hoffman said it was difficult to judge whether Absa had followed proper channels but the reality is that either way somebody owes SA taxpayers a huge amount of money more than R2.25bn . Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago said on Friday the Bank was studying the report and will give full feedback on the matter this week .Analyst Tshepo Kgadima said if the directors of Absa had integrity, they would have approached the government and relevant authorities with a view of settling the loan a while ago. Kgadima said it was disgraceful that Absa had elected a litigious route on a loan which had already been found to have been irregular and illegal. He said shareholders would have to take the pain. The liability rests with the bank for as long as it exists, he said.-TNA Reporters|news@thenewage.co.za 