Water consumption in the City of Cape Town is still 7 million litres above the daily usage target, the City said on Tuesday. As of today, water consumption is again above the collective water usage target of 800 million litres per day. At usage levels of 807 million litres, we are still 7 million litres above the daily water usage target, irrespective of the recent rainfall that has been experienced,&#8221; the City said. The city said dam levels have dropped to approximately 39,2 % with the last 10% of a dam s water being unusable. City supply dam levels could be seen as effective around 29,2% . Mayoral Committee Member for Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services; and Energy, Councillor Xanthea Limberg said the city is ready to take the necessary measures to lower consumption. &#8220;Some of the highest water users in the metro will soon receive notice from the City to drastically reduce consumption. The City will not hesitate to look at instituting enhanced punitive measures to force consumption down in high-use areas across the metro if required, said Limberg. The city says w ater consumption remains far too high among many users, in many areas and it is time that all residents and businesses take the water crisis seriously. City officials and the Area-based Mayoral Committee Members are targeting the 20 000 highest water users to ensure that they comply with water restrictions and reduce their water consumption. We cannot all suffer because of the abuse of water by some, said Limberg. The City reported its plan that included door-to-door visits, issuing more fines where applicable, installing water restriction devices if usage on properties continues to be high, and focusing strongly on education and awareness. The executive Mayor of the City of Cape Town Patricia De Lille said the situation is much worse. We are in the midst of a severe drought. Dam levels are far too low, yet our collective usage has not dropped, De Lille said. The city has imposed a level 3 B water restriction, aiming to bring consumption to below 800 mil litres a week. Bulk water supply manager of the City of Cape Town Barry Wood s aid their hope is winter rains. O ur storage has been falling since January as its does every year, we currently siting at 29% of capacity in the next two months as the winter rains come, the situation will be better,&#8221; Wood said. &#8220;We thank those residents who are working very hard to save water. As for the 20 000 highest water users, we will be targeting these households as they need to drastically reduce consumption. Formal residential properties use 65% of the City s water supply, said the city. The water restrictions will come into effect on Wednesday 1 February 2017 . Level 3 water restrictions include the following: Watering and irrigation is only allowed on Tuesdays and Saturdays before 9 am or after 6 pm maximum 1 hour a day No use of hosepipes or sprinkler systems allowed No watering and irrigation within 48 hours of rainfall . No washing or hosing down of paved of paved areas with drinking water allowed Using drinking water for water features is strongly discouraged No washing of vehicles or boats, using municipal drinking water The water restrictions will come into effect on Wednesday 1 February 2017. TNA Reporter 