Despite the recent rain, drought is still a problem in the country and the public at large is urged to use water sparingly. Residents are not spared the economic downturn encountered by the country as a result of escalating food, petrol and housing prices. Experts warned that it was too early to start celebrating the recent rain throughout the country, as the agricultural sector was not yet out of the woods and drought was still persisting in some parts of the country. Consumers will be hit the hardest as it will be difficult to bring food prices down. Despite the level of the dams in the province showing a significant increase, even the department of water and sanitation urged residents to keep using water sparingly and not to rely on rain as the country was still experiencing drought. The inflation rate was at 6.8% in December with food prices at a 12% high. This suggests that South Africans must tighten their belts and prepare themselves for a possible rocky period for the next 12 months before they can start seeing the benefits of the recent rain. In a meeting between Minister Nomvula Mokonyane and local government MECs, it was revealed that the province s dam levels were at 90.6%. Despite the increase, the provincial government represented by MEC of cooperative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs Alvin Botes said there was still a great need for people to use water sparingly. There is a lot that needs to be done to efficiently minimise the usage of water in water scarce communities especially in our province, he said. Botes said the message to use water sparingly was very important and should continue to be communicated to all communities as the drought effects were still evident in the province. He said they were working around the clock to ensure that all the backlog caused by aging infrastructure was fixed and they would be interacting with municipalities to speed up the processes. We are also looking into working with local municipalities where we will emphasise that the municipal integrated grant is used to upgrade the infrastructure which in some areas is more than 30 years old, Botes said. The province was declared a drought-stricken province which also experienced veld fires in the recent months. Mokonyane said the nation was still far from getting out of the drought phase as some provinces were still not receiving enough rain. We wish to emphasise that we are still faced with a dire situation as a country and remain drought-stricken, Mokonyane said. We only anticipate a full recovery in about three years time. Both Mokonyane and Botes said aging infrastructure was a crisis in the country as it contributed negatively to the provision of water services in all provinces. The intention is to once again ensure that as we plan for regional bulk infrastructure, the provinces together with municipalities also begin to plan for the reticulation and linked infrastructure that will benefit from our schemes and is reliant on them for development, she said. &nbsp;TIISETSO MANOKO