Traits of a perfect sex partner While sex might be overrated for some, a large amount of people spend time everyday on the Internet, searching for ways to improve their sex lives and tips to become the perfect sex partner for their respective lovers. And if you re one of those people, who ve still not been able to figure out the qualities of the ideal sex partner, here s help.Clean and hygienic Everyone likes making love to a clean and tidy partner, so good hygiene holds great importance in a sexual relationship. Ensure that your partner is well manicured with a fully waxed body for a higher comfort level. Too much hair on body makes it uncomfortable to enjoy each inch of your lover. So, look out for a soft and clean skin in your partner complemented with a nice fragrance, as a bad body odour is a huge turn-off.Cool with oral sex You know what pleases you, so a wonderful partner to have in bed is one who doesn&#8217;t hesitate going out of the way to give you that pleasure. If not routinely, your partner should be ready to please you orally as per their own mood and comfort level.Adventurous Intimacy and passion gets killed if you have a boring partner, who is having sex for the sake of it. Ensure that he/she makes every effort to heighten the sensation by exploring their adventurous side. Having a partner who is open to trying new sexual pleasures is a definite bonus. Right from participating in dirty talks, taking chocolate baths with you, trying out new positions to indulging in naughty love games, he/she should be keen to try sex escapades that make them a perfect bedroom partner.One with a sexy body Though weighty issues shouldn&#8217;t come in way of your sexual pleasure, yet it&#8217;s natural to look for a partner sans love handles or a bulging belly as an overweight partner can mar your sexual life. Being in top shape gives your body greater flexibility and accentuates your bedroom performance.Having a wild imagination It&#8217;s excellent to take charge in bed sans any inhibitions. But what makes sex even more special is to bring new-fangled sex ideas and implement them. A vivid imagination and voracious desires can contribute to healthy sexuality. With an avid sex lover who is willing to try arousing positions in bed, use sex toys, suggest new ways to climax, explore alternate seduction techniques and foreplay acts, the sex romp can be one of its kind.This article first appeared on The Times of India