The recent spate of fires in the winelands of the Western Cape have again brought the issue of the wine producer s risk to the fore, with a number of wine farms being adversely affected and insurance companies assessing claims to the damage, which could run into millions of rands.Shehnaz Somers, head of commercial underwriting at Santam, said the company was still assessing the damage and loss as a result of fires spreading to well-known vineyards and guest farms in the winelands and surrounding areas over the past month. The company insures about 200 of the 600 wine farms in the Western Cape alone providing cover against specific risks including liability, contamination and recall of products. Our claims team is assessing about 50 claims related to the recent fires, most of which are related to buildings and vineyards but it is still too early to report on the exact extent of the damage, Somers said. We know that last year, runaway fires destroyed vineyards inStellenbosch Overberg Simonsberg and Kogelberg early in 2016 resulting in losses estimated at around R240000 per hectare.This included the loss of income to the farmers and the additional labour costs required to re-establish the vineyards. Last year, Santam paid out 596 claims worth more than R9.4m to the wine industry. These claims were specifically related to agricultural assets. In many cases, the claims were as a result of fire, accidental damage or liability. The wine industry requires a highly specialised approach to insurance which is why we have a team of experts who are adept at their approach to this sector.We believe that safeguarding their revenues is pivotal to the long term sustainability of wine farming in SA and the economy as a whole, Somers said. He said it could take between five and seven years for an average wine vineyard to become productive again after a loss or significant damage. The loss of a vineyard could have a major impact and knock-on effect on the financial viability of the farm operation as a whole.SA has a rich wine heritage and is ranked among the top 10 wine producing countries in the world but for the individual wine farmer, guarding against the various risks he or she may face, is absolutely instrumental to the lifeblood of the business as well as the South African economy.There are about 98 597ha of vines producing wine grapes under cultivation in South Africa an area covering some 800km in length. Somers said thanks to strong exports to large parts of Europe and America especially, the South African wine industry was a significant foreign exchange earner for the local economy. The South African Wine Industry Information and Systems confirmed local revenues from the wine industry contributed more than R36bn to the national GDP and provided employment to more than 300000 people.Most local wine farmers have insurance protection against weatherrelated incidents. Industry reports showed a number of them were still grappling with the consequences of the protracted drought in early 2016.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za