It s not every day that you meet a bass guitarist who plays the guitar strung upside down.But celebrated guitar man, Tshepo Mohlala, has made a name for himself turning his bass around so that the strings are reversed.Strangely, Mohlala has the thickest strings on the bottom and the thinnest on the top. But as weird as it looks, he does it with such aplomb it has unlocked exciting doors of opportunity for him.Understandably, no amount of disapproval could convince him otherwise when he started. And it has all paid off, catching the eyes of some of South Africa s celebrated musicians. The left-hander has been part of Zahara s band since she burst onto the music scene with her debut album Loliwe, which went platinum in 13 days and double platinum after 17 days.Mohlala has also played for Mafikizolo s leading lady, Nhlanhla Nciza, as well as the award-winning band. He has also featured for the prolific and versatile Abigail Khubeka, the legendary Sibongile Khumalo, the late Lebo Mathosa, Judith Sephuma, Themba Mkhize and his internationally-acclaimed uncle, Benjamin Dube.In fact, Mohlala had his first major gig as a starry-eyed schoolboy over a decade ago when recording a live DVD with Dube for the album In His Presence. I was so ecstatic when he asked me to come and play for him because I had always dreamt of going professional. But then again, I was a nervous wreck because I was still young and this was a DVD that the world would watch, Mohlala says.But he did extremely well and was to work with his prominent uncle for the next five years, amassing a wealth of experience to venture into his own business.Mohlala has also taken budding musicians like Ingoma Awards nominee Tshepang Mofokeng under his record label, established in 2009. His first year as a producer saw his artist, Mofokeng, nominated for two awards best album and best female artist. She went on to share the stage with gospel heavyweights including Dube, Keke and former Joyous Celebration lead vocalist, Patrick Duncan.The talented instrumentalist has gone on to launch a clothing line, named LeftHandBass after his unique ability to play the guitar upside down. I took the opportunity to brand myself with the gift God gave me of being a left-handed bass player. I gained a following from people seeing this guy playing upside down, which led to the birth of the clothing line, he says.Mohlala admits the transition from being solely a bass player to producing an artist was quite challenging. It means you re now responsible for releasing material and making sure you get it out there and the business side of things is always intact. But when I look back, it was the best move I ever took, he says. Mohlala says he always has to strive to ensure the music he produces is quality in a competitive industry. While busy with producing music, managing his artists, as well as his gigs, Mohlala also has to keep his clothing line running and relevant.Shortly before launching his clothing line, he came up with his famous tag line &#8211; If it s not LEFT, it s not RIGHT . It s my company s tag line, which I also use for my record label. I love the uniqueness and originality it carries, Mohlala explains.His T-shirts and hoodies, branded with the Lefthandbass logo, are selling beyond the borders of South Africa in countries like Swaziland and Lesotho. I ve always believed in pushing aggressively to achieve my goals, which is exactly what I ve done with the clothing label, he says.With music, things were quite easy as two of his uncles are household names in South African music circles.He says the five years he spent working under Dube gave him some invaluable experience. The faith he showed in me while I was still in school was quite heartening and I had to grab the opportunity with both hands. I couldn t afford to let him down, he says.Ironically, his other uncle, Victor Masondo played bass guitar, albeit the correct way for the likes of Freshly Ground, PJ Powers and Concord Nkabinde. Masondo is also a renowned music producer, performer, arranger, conductor and music industry educator. Having been mentored by these two men and a few other people, a lot of things were easier for me and I ve taken what I learnt from there and used it in refining my own craft. One of my highlights was working with my uncle, pastor Dube, for about five years, recording most of his platinum-selling albums. I d say that s where my musical experience grew as I was still in music school when I started playing for him, Mohlala says.He also had the privilege of gleaning musical wisdom from famous Malawian guitarist Erik Paliani. He would tell me what I do wrong and right in my music as well as give lots of advice. It helps quite a lot to have people that know to share their knowledge and wisdom with you, Mohlala said.Despite having musical heavyweights around him, Mohlala stresses the importance of studying to refine one s skill.He says the prospects of playing for his internationally recognised uncle, Dube, pushed him to enrol at the Central Johannesburg College and be taught by professionals how to play the bass guitar. My uncle wasn t going to do me any favours and I also didn t expect any. I had to invest in my skill and go to school. So I went to learn how to play bass at school and when he felt I was ready he called me and said you deserve an opportunity , he says.He singles that day as one of his most unforgettable moments in as far as music is concerned. I was ecstatic and as I continued to work with him, each time I got on the stage was never the same. He demonstrated to me what true worship is. I always said he knows where God resides. He also credits his parents for supporting him in his musical career. They were not involved closely, but I got a lot of support from them. I also believe their prayers have sustained me through my musical journey, he says.Mohlala has tasted both worlds being a guitarist and getting paid, as well as being his own boss. In finding my own feet, I had to sacrifice a lot, do a lot of travelling just to build my own empire. It s a point where everything now depends on your own pocket. Instead of being paid, you are now paying people and you have to ensure there is money to pay them, he says. And he is convinced that where money are involved, integrity and honesty are two principles that are key to success. I strongly believe integrity and uprightness will preserve you in this industry. No one wants to work with a dishonest person. I hate double standards. Despite the challenges posed by the music industry, Mohlala says that nothing beats the feeling of seeing his product in a music store and hearing it play in someone s car.He is cognizant of the fact that he has to be creative with the music he produces, seeing as everything has gone digital. Times have changed and people are purchasing music on their smartphones and we ve got to keep up with that, otherwise we will lose out. Interestingly, Mohlala did give football a try as a young boy, but later gravitated towards his first love music. He used to play development soccer back in the days for Soweto giants Orlando Pirates and Moroka Swallows. So when I want to unwind I still play social soccer with a local team, he says.Mohlala also enjoys fatherhood and spends time with his little girl, Bontle. I ll start a bigger family soon, I believe in family. I named my baby girl, Bontle, because she is beautiful, the proud dad says.He says his major driving force is to add value to the lives of the people around him, as well as to achieve the goals he sets for himself. Mohlala wants his life to tell the story that you can be anything you want to be despite any circumstances .His biggest turn off is musicians that badmouth other musicians. As for him, he vows to keep his feet on the ground and continue to fine-tune his skills.The adept instrumentalist jokingly says he is searching for the next left-handed guitarist. With his passion and drive, Mohlala looks set to unearth musical gems in South Africa.mtokozisid@thenewage.co.zaMTHOKOZISI DUBE