The public consultations on the National Liquor Amendment Bill conducted by the Department of Trade and Industry across the country late last year will greatly improve South Africa s liquor legislation, the acting deputy director-general of consumer and corporate regulation, MacDonald Netshitenzhe said.Netshitenzhe and his team are now analysing the feedback received from thousands of people during the 30 public consultative sessions that took place during the public hearings. We are happy with the input from the public on the bill. We value the inputs and ideas of all of the country s citizens on matters that affect them directly, like the liquor bill. As a result, we hosted a minimum of three public consultative sessions in each of the nine provinces, Netshitenzhe said.He said that the department also held public sessions to solicit the views of various stakeholders. These included industry associations such as the South African Liquor Traders Association and the South African Liquor Brand Owners Association. Non-governmental and communitybased organisations were also afforded an opportunity to express their views on the bill.It also hosted a national liquor indaba attended by all stakeholders, as part of the consultation process. More than 60 written submissions were also received. The initial impression we got from these wide and extensive consultations is that the Bill has placed South Africans into two camps, namely members of the general public and businesspeople, divided along public interests and business interests, he said.He said that the message from the general public was clear that the implementation of measures proposed in the bill was long overdue. The measures include the increasing of drinking minimum age limit to 21, prohibiting liquor trading within a 500m radius in areas such as schools and places of worship and holding liquor suppliers and manufacturers liable for damages occurring as a result of consumption of liquor supplied to unlicensed traders. The government and legislators will have their work cut out to strike a balance between the interests of the public and those of business which feels that the bill will have a negative impact on the industry. It is indisputable that alcohol is a common denominator in most of the country s social ills, including the rising number of deaths caused by drunken driving, Netshitenzhe said. Therefore, something decisive needs to be done to achieve behavioural change that will lead to the eradication of the rampant alcohol abuse ravaging our country. That is what the bill seeks to achieve, he said.He said the bill still has to undergo a long and rigorous process of working through the input and written submissions before it is finally signed into law by President Jacob Zuma.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za 