THE University of the Free State (UFS) has, for the first time in its history, elected a woman as deputy chair of its council. Nthabeleng Rammile was elected vice-chairperson at recent council meeting where the chairperson, Willem Louw, was elected chairperson.Rammile has served on the council as representative of the religious communities since January 1, 2016. She is also a member of the council subcommittees for audit and risk management, and naming.She obtained a PhD in brand management at the UFS, where she also lectured in the business management department from 2003 to 2014. She is a pastor at Global Reconciliation, where she is responsible for women s ministry, community outreach projects, and multimedia.Rammile will serve as vice-chair person until March 12, 2018. The newly elected chair, Louw, will serve as chairperson of council until December 31, 2018. The university council elected Louw as the new chairperson during a special meeting recently.Louw was vice-chairperson of the council since March 2015. Louw s election comes after the announcement by justice Ian van der Merwe at a council meeting on December 2, 2016, that he would be stepping down as chairperson on December 31.Louw has served on the council since September 11, 2009 and was elected as a member of the executive committee of the council on November 18, 2011. He serves on the council s subcommittees for audit and risk management, and honorary degrees. In accepting his election as chairperson, Louw said he appreciated the trust the council had bestowed on him. It is a privilege and honour to lead council and I look forward to the challenge. With the support of Rammile and the rest of the council, I endeavour to ensure that the university management is assisted in the governance of the university and that the council plays its governance role fully at all times, he said. Prof Nicky Morgan, acting vice chancellor and rector of the UFS, said the university was privileged to have Louw and Rammile leading its council at such a crucial time in the South African higher education sector. Their combined experience will be of great benefit to the university community, Morgan said.kamogelos@thenewage.co.zaKAMOGELO SEEKOEI&nbsp;