More than 50000 Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) college results remain blocked due to exam paper leakages reported in four subjects. This was revealed by Higher Education and Training Minister Blade Nzimande yesterday.He said the department had concluded the investigation into the 54 561 subject results and would release them once quality assurance council, Umalusi, approved. Thousands of students wrote in November last year but some cannot study further as their results are still being withheld. Other results are blocked due to acts of dishonesty, that is, copying, use of crib notes, ghost writing, etcetera, affecting 1 298 candidates (0.2%) out of the total of 842 772 candidates that enrolled to write the November 2016 examinations, he said.Nzimande said the outcome of the investigation into each individual incident would determine whether the results remained blocked or released. On results that have been pending for years, Nzimande said the State Information Technology Agency (Sita), responsible for capturing results, had admitted that it s IT system was not functioning well, which had affected the release of the results to institutions.This comes as the South African Further Education and Training Student Association shut down about 20 colleges across the country demanding, among other things, that the process of releasing results be quicker. Some students said they had been waiting for more than seven years for their certificates. Nzimande said at a meeting earlier this week Sita had committed to providing the department with a functioning IT system to resolve all resulting and certification challenges. All outstanding results for the November 2016 examinations will be resolved by February 28 and all certificates will be processed by March 31, he said. Nzimande also addressed other issues raised by the student union such as inexperienced lecturers, lack of infrastructure and lack of funding. He said the department also said there were some lecturers who did not have practical experience. A number of universities have developed programmes to address a skills gap of existing lecturers.To date about 10 universities are developing a post graduate diploma for lecturers, he said. Nzimande TVET colleges were underfunded. No additional capital infrastructure grants have been made available to TVET colleges for the past five years. The department will again submit capital bid requests to the national Treasury during this year, he said. Nzimande said people should not look at TVET colleges as a plan B for those who could not get in at universities as they offered different programmes. There are many students who prefer colleges rather than universities because of the programmes offered there and 70% of TVET college graduates find employment after graduating, he said.-Batandwa Malingo|batandwam@thenewage.co.za