The inner Johannesburg Selby bus depot is being renovated and is to be turned into a state-of-the-art Rea Vaya Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) depot.Johannesburg Development Agency (JDA) chief executive Thanduxolo Mendrew said the redevelopment of the Selby bus depot formed part of the work of phase 1B of Rea Vaya. In 2013, the JDA developed the first depot in Meadowlands in Soweto. The development of an inner city depot was identified to reduce dead mileage during off-peak hours as buses would return to the Meadowlands depot or the Booysens layover to wait, Mendrew said. You would find empty buses having to wait at these depots before travelling back to the city. This will now be a thing of the past. The move will also help in reducing unnecessary carbon emissions, Mendrew said.The Selby depot is being revamped to be on par with the Meadowlands depot, which is environmentally friendly and custom-made for Rea Vaya buses.The depot, which can accommodate up to 270 buses at a time, comprises a bus parking area, administration and maintenance blocks and underground fuel tanks. Environmentally friendly features include lights controlled by sensors, a robust, mild steel sheeting for the roof, and cladding to help with climate control and a noise-wall barrier erected around the premises, Mendrew said.The roof structures also allow direct sunlight into the building to reduce the need for lighting. Water is recycled for reuse in the buildings and the wash bay.The revamping of the depot, which started in August, is expected to be completed by May.The refurbishment of the depot, formerly used by Putco buses, include: The replacement of a portion of the existing concrete paving to create a bus parking platform. This includes the construction of new concrete paving slabs on the identified footprint. The construction of a traffic circle for bus turnaround and depot access facilitation adjacent to the site on the Pat Mbatha Highway. The removal and replacement of the boundary fence and internal fences The provision of two off-street parking embankments on the perimeter site. 701270-TNA REPORTER