The matric class of 2017 at Batswana High School in Mahikeng is expected to go all the way and achieve a 100% pass rate.School principal Ellse Tsolo set the bar high after seeing the school record a pass rate of more than 90% for a number of years, at times coming just short of 100% by just a percentage point.The class of 2016 attained a pass rate of 91.67%, a slight drop from the previous year, but Tsolo is optimistic. We are happy with the outcome because out of 228 candidates, 209 passed. We produced 87 bachelor candidates, 88 for diplomas and 34 for higher certificates. Only 19 failed to make it, he said.The school produced 35 distinctions excluding life orientation, which attained 23 distinctions.There were 13 distinctions in English, eight in Setswana, four in mathematics, accounting and physical science had three each and economics and life sciences had two apiece. The highlight was having Boitumelo Molefe in the top 10 at provincial level and she represents a silver lining amid the challenges we faced in 2016 and other years. Tsolo bemoaned the fact that some parents had not supported their children About 30% of our pupils were troublesome with some parents failing to collect reports. It was as if parents abdicated their responsibilities to the school leading to a situation where children become uncontrollable. In worse scenarios, the picture painted was that of parents afraid of their children and it seems like we are also hit hard by the drug scourge. Some of the pupils, mainly boys from Grade 8 right to 12, are hooked and it s a problem, he said.Tsolo said that at one point, out of a class of 38, only four pupils would come to school. Our system seems to have produced a kind of pupil who is carefree. This discourages teachers and sometimes they pass the buck to the principal. However, Tsolo said a different approach would be used this year and if followed through, there was hope that a 100% pass rate could be achieved.The 2017 academic calendar begins tomorrow.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za