With Wayne Parnell enjoying both his bowling and batting, the possibility of fulfilling an all-rounder role in the Proteas team does not seem unlikely. Parnell recently struck a century for his franchise team Cape Cobras and then took three wickets as the Proteas beat Sri Lanka by eight wickets in the first ODI on Saturday.With more opportunities, Parnell reckons there is nothing stopping him from making the step up to all-rounder status for both the national team and Cape Cobras. I think contributing with the bat and a ball has always been my goal for whichever team I play for. I just need to contribute whichever way I can, Parnell said. I think with more opportunities that I had in domestic cricket the last couple of seasons, people saw what I can do.What the future holds is something which we need to wait for. After being in and out of the Proteas team in the past few years, the 27 year old said he would continue what he has been doing and focus on being consistent to keep his place in Russel Domingo s team. I think going back to domestic cricket and figuring out what to do to get back into the national team and try to stay here has been the success. Game time is the key thing when it comes to any professional athlete.Going on tour, playing one game here and one game there doesn t quite have the same effect as playing games week in and week out. So I think playing under that pressure more consistently, that has been key for me over the last few months. I don t really mind whether I m here or not. If I m left out of the series I will just go back to the Cobras and continue doing well. Ahead of the second ODI tomorrow at Sahara Park Kingsmead, Parnell expects Sri Lanka to bounce back following their defeat in Port Elizabeth. I felt that we executed our plans nicely.Imran Tahir was world class as he always is. I think taking care of their big players is something we are focusing on. If we can get them out early, there is no reason why we can t run through them. But obviously, every single venue poses different challenges. -Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za &nbsp;