The appointment of former high school principal Dr Randall Jonas as the director of the Business School at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) has been welcomed, with some describing him as a high calibre individual . Dr Jonas is a prime example of the high calibre of individuals who remain in Nelson Mandela Bay to make a difference in the city. He has served the city for over a decade as President of the NMMU Alumni Association and as CEO and director of Eastcape Training Centre, he said.Jonas was a teacher at Chapman High School for 26 years before being appointed principal in 1998. He left the school in 2006 and later ventured into business.Jonas holds a bachelor of arts degree from the University of the Western Cape, a higher diploma in education, a masters in sociology and a doctorate specialising in organisational management from NMMU. With all his accolades, Jonas says he is aware that his new role comes with huge responsibility. As the director of the Business School I am privileged to be a partner in business education services as a catalyst specifically for business success and economic growth more generally. Needless to say, I am excited to be working for this exceptional university and, in particular, to be part of the business school team, he said.Jonas work experience also includes a wide range of professional and community involvement activities such as his work with the university, the Eastern Cape Education Advisory Council, the Centre for Integrated Post School Education and Training and the national body for private tertiary education and training providers.His work in higher education has largely been recognised with numerous awards, including a national one for outstanding leadership in private tertiary education in 2009. I believe that business schools in general have an important role to play in society. Through their research and education programmes, they are able to influence the management and leadership of organisations. Our country, with an emerging economy, requires business leaders who are in tune with the contexts.National African Federated Chamber of Commerce regional secretary Mandla Msizi said Dr Jonas was very deserving of his new role. He is a great visionary and very clear when it comes to business. He he has always made himself available whenever there were challenges, working to turn things around, he said.LONDEKA DLAMINIlondekad@thenewage.co.za