THERE was a lot to celebrate for Mamelodi Sundowns when they thrashed Baroka FC 4-0 at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Tuesday night. For coach Pitso Mosimane, the biggest milestone was to finally ascend to the top of the PSL log. Secondly, the win marked Mosimane’s five years in charge of the Brazilians and it was also the first win for Sundowns at home this season. Before then, Sundowns had lost their previous three home matches. Another reason for Sundowns and Mosimane to celebrate was that striker Percy Tau scored his second brace of the season with two clinically taken goals. Despite being red-hot at this stage of the season, positioning himself as the main man as Downs look to wrest the league title back from Bidvest Wits, Mosimane said he still expects even more from the Bafana Bafana striker. The former Bafana Bafana coach mentioned instances where he feels Tau should have been more shrewd, but also said the club appreciates his overall contribution. “Percy could do better. Let us be honest. He can do better. We appreciate and we acknowledge that he does well. He fights. He tries. But he could do better in front of goals,” Mosimane said. “He got one against Chippa United. He was looking for goals. He got a one-on-one opportunity against the goalkeeper at Wits but he delayed. But that’s okay. He is doing well. We are working on him.” Sundowns’ win two days ago saw them claim top spot for the first time this year and Mosimane said his team will have to be prepared to deal with the pressure of being at the top. The Sundowns coach said when Baroka were on top, everyone targeted them and the same thing will happen to Sundowns, who were top yesterday despite having played far less games than teams such as Kaizer Chiefs, Baroka and Golden Arrows. “Sometimes complacency creeps in when you are top and you think you have done it. But is always good to go up there, send a statement and lead from the top. But you also create pressure. I think that responsibility is what created pressure on Baroka. “They have been there. But for the last five games they had not won but every- one still took them seriously because they were top. When you are on top, every- body shoots at you. But if you are a big team, you should be able to deal with it.” Mosimane was also pleased with the performances of Khama Billiat, goal scorer Themba Zwane and attacker Sibusiso Vilakazi. • Sundowns’ next game will be on Sunday at the Princess Magogo Stadium against Golden Arrows. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za