AS the race for the presidency moves into the home straight and focus falls on the ANC elective conference this weekend, no clear favourite has emerged between the two frontrunners for the party’s presidency. In the past weeks, politics have overshadowed local and international economic data as the key mover of the markets. If apparent frontrunner Cyril Ramaphosa was seen to stumble, markets moved, if the main rival Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma made a policy pronouncement, the rand reacted. Local politics have been the main reason for the significant rally in the rand as the hotly contested race reached its final stages. The market and investors have shown greater preference for a CR17 presidency as they believe Ramaphosa to be more “market-friendly”. Dlamini Zuma has played up their policy differences by pushing hard her vision of radical economic transformation. While Ramaphosa is clearly the market darling, it is the branch members who count when all is said and done. Many South Africans are fed up with the slow economic growth, rising unemployment and the general hardships they hoped would be left behind as democracy took over. Talk of radical economic empowerment is music to their ears and NDZ has made that her rallying cry. Ramaphosa punted a “New Deal” during his Soweto campaign at Orlando Stadium, which was attended by members of the business elite. “A new deal for jobs, growth, and transformation that will turn the economy around and build a more equal society. This New Deal will and must bring together government, business, labour and civil society together in a meaningful and effective social compact to construct a prosperous, just society founded on opportunities for all,” he said. He then talked about 10 priorities which were a mix of orthodox economics and radical economic transformation which included the creation of “decent jobs at the centre of every policy, programme and action, unrelenting focus on growth and investment, meaningful
economic participation for the poor, the landless and the marginalised”. He espoused macroeconomic policy that promotes growth and secures the country’s economic sovereignty, accelerates the transfer of ownership and control of the economy to black South Africans, improves access for all to quality, relevant education, and revitalises
and expands manufacturing capacity. Ramaphosa spoke of maximising the country’s infrastructure build, restoring state-owned companies as drivers of economic growth and social development, and confronting corruption and state capture. One could say he made all the right noises but analysts say he was taking a safe line between orthodox economics that business wants to hear and the radical talk that has been driving NDZ’s campaign. The chairperson of the ANC sub-committee on economic policies, Enoch Gondwana, said ANC economic policies are not for sale. “If you are elected the next leader of the ANC, you must know that RET will stay the same. ANC policies are not for sale so it does not matter who wins the election. The executive drives the collective policies of the party,” he said. NDZ’s campaign has been thin on detail, with some observers saying that she has been more intent on sending populist messages that the masses want to hear rather than spelling out details that business people could grapple with. She has said RET must be “now or never” and that it must uplift all black South Africans. This is the key to Dlamini-Zuma’s policy outline and what South Africans should expect if she becomes the next leader of the ANC and the country. “The dominance of the minority in the management, control, and ownership of various economic sectors in the country is not helping build a united, non-racial prosperous country or healing the divisions of the past. “It is vital for the incoming leadership of the ANC to intensify programmes to eradicate inequalities, unemployment, and poverty in the country. RET is now or never,” she said. Phemelo Ramela, a transformation agent and BEE analyst, said RET sounds simple and doable – “but the reality is that it will not come cheap”. “If you don’t have a plan in place, an execution strategy and a budget supporting RET, it won’t happen. We need a plan, not talk,” Ramela said. Ramela warns that a Ramaphosa win will by no means guarantee the country’s economic woes will disappear overnight. “Already Ramaphosa is caught in his own trap. The deputy president is saying many things to many audiences, trying to please blacks and whites. “It will be interesting to see which policies he will go for. In the end, though, he is bound to pursue radical economic transformation,” Ramela said. bernards@thenewage.co.za