The ANC’s December conference must be more about its policies than personalities – this is what the poor demand. Personalities and policies are fundamentals of any democracy. The run-up to the ANC’s national policy conference, (NPC), earlier in the year, as well as its imminent national conference, has been dogged by an emphasis on personalities rather than policies, capitalised on in the mainstream media. Reports have been solely dedicated to engaging with individual players, misunderstanding once again the ANC’s institutional culture as an organisation, which always acts as a collective. While again the media have sought to highlight the results and outcomes of branch nominations with very few opinion pieces or editorials being dedicated to the substance of the policy and national conferences, ANC branches have spent time engaging in discussion documents and pointing out the needs and concerns of their communities. This is part of the reason why the ANC’s constitution insists that 90% of delegates to any ANC conference must be delegates elected from and by the branches. As delegates pack their bags for the Nasrec event and as Luthuli House prepares its conference packs, there will be a myriad of issues that branches have mandated their delegates to address in the commissions of the conference. Unlike the portrayal that the conference will be primarily about elections, the reality is that the majority of time will be spent finalising and deciding on policy proposals made at the NPC held earlier in the year. As one scans the challenges and concerns of the communities in which ANC branches find themselves in, there seems to be four critical areas in which the conference must give leadership. While never wanting to downplay the importance of other issues raised by delegates, it is helpful to point out which are critical, confront them and then decide on solutions on these issues. The state of the economy must be the first and foremost focus of ANC delegates. The opening lines of the discussion document for the NPC state that it is incumbent on the branches of the ANC, and collectively as the conference, to understand and analyse local and global conditions of the economy. Yet this analysis must be made in order to ensure an appraisal of the national democratic revolution and how far we, as a movement endowed with this historic task, are in bringing about a national democratic society. In the pursuit of this appraisal, on where we are in achieving a non-racist, non-sexist, free and prosperous South Africa where all share in the wealth of the country, the ANC believes it needs to set about a programme of radical socioeconomic transformation (RET). Sadly, it has been thrown about as a term in the media and often misunderstood, but what it ultimately means is that, no matter what macro-economic policy we adopt, the South African economy must be restructured. Even if we do choose the route of “inclusive-growth”, the economy has proven hitherto to be in need of this restructuring in order for this growth to benefit more people. What RET also means is ensuring the economy is transformed from one which is an exploitative exporter of raw materials to one where all benefit from these materials. Even more so, we must prioritise that the processing of these raw materials takes place here within the country by our people. As a result, manufacturing will take the leading role in guaranteeing that the potential of our resources are fully realised, which will make us competitive globally. At the same time, the greater participation of the majority of our people, who are black, in the formal economy must be realised while they should also be the main beneficiaries of this economy. Anything else, meaning the status quo, is grossly unsustainable and therefore untenable. The second focus of the conference is linked to the first but addresses a much more historical mandate and that is the question of land and developing the rural economy. The return of land to our people remains paramount. In fact, one may suggest that the cornerstone of RET is the return of land to the people. The ANC’s policy proposals continue to note and foresee adhering to the Constitution directive to a “just and equitable” compensation for the acquisition of land for the purposes of land redistribution and restitution. Yet the ANC has also noted the landmark ruling of the ConCourt that agreement on the quantum of fair compensation should not be a premium in the purchase of land for land reform – nor should it be a precondition for land redistribution to take place. In this respect, the ANC must ensure that its deployees in the government accelerate the necessary interventions both for land reform as well as for rural development. Measures must also be put in place to hold ANC’s public representatives accountable to ensure they give the necessary oversight to these programmes. Again, the third focus of the conference delegates is closely connected to the economy and that is to ensure that our young population is economically active. More than half of South Africa’s population is considered as youth, while unemployment among young people is highest than any other age category. Statistics South Africa say the chances of unemployed young people remain slim if they do not obtain employment soon. Some young people will never work in their lives, unless a serious intervention is made. The ANC believes that unemployment among the youth will be massively dented by vocational training and skills development. Apprenticeship programmes, public service youth brigades, internships, youth cooperatives and enterprises, among others, must be advanced and expanded in order to give effect to young people implementing the skills that they have acquired. With the dawn of the fourth industrial revolution, the growth of skills for our young people becomes even more imperative. Whether young people have already been to university or whether they simply want to start out as entrepreneurs, more investment in science, technology, engineering and mathematics is needed. In this respect, state-owned enterprises must not only provide employment opportunities but should also facilitate the necessary training possibilities. Another concern that should be uppermost in the minds of delegates is the violence perpetrated against women and children. Indirectly, this too has a direct social impact on our economy. Women, who are often the backbone of households and the initiators of startups, small enterprises and cooperatives, suffer grievously at the hands of abusers. In 2014, the ANC Women’s League released a document giving an analytical framework for policy influence towards radical transformation of women’s socio-economic empowerment and rights. In particular, in respect of gender-based violence, the document highlights the loopholes with some of the legislation already promulgated to fight this scourge. For example, the Domestic Violence Act, the Women’s League suggested, had the absence of built-in measures in the act itself, to address the underlying causes of and influencing factors in domestic violence situations. Victims continue to endure abuse despite having taken out protection orders against their abusers. Often, cases involving women abuse mention that an interdict or restraining order had already been taken out. Despite these protection orders these situations often progress to “intimate femicide”. The document also lauds the reintroduction of sexual offences courts. Despite the monumental achievements of the ANC since 1994, there remains monumental challenges for South Africa. ANC delegates are aware of these challenges and these will be on their minds as they decide the future of our beloved country. ANC delegates dare not fail in their duty. Wesley Seale is a politics lecturer at Rhodes University Creating jobs, improving the economy and protecting women from abuse are among the issues to be tackled at ANC conference Wesley Seale Analysis