FORMER South African Revenue Services’ (SARS) spokesperson Adrian Lackay has spoken about the case of constructive dismissal he brought against SARS – and lost. The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) dismissed his claims yesterday of unfair dismissal. Lackay, who is employed by the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) on a short-term contract, left SARS in 2015, citing untenable working conditions under commissioner Tom Moyane. The New Age saw Lackay at the plush new PIC offices in Menlyn in the east of Pretoria yesterday and spoke to him about the CCMA ruling. Lackay had taken his case against SARS to the CCMA two years back, to test his rights as a former employee and to put facts on record about what he called the disastrous efforts by SARS’ bosses to rid the agency of its most senior and experienced tax officials, based on concocted allegations of a “rogue unit” that supposedly spied on President Jacob Zuma and operated a brothel – while former finance minister Pravin Gordhan was SARS’ commissioner. “I fully stand by my evidence to the CCMA in this regard, which was presented under oath. “It is disappointing that the CCMA commissioner, Joyce Nkopane, found my evidence unconvincing but I respect her ruling. I have been advised by legal experts that constructive dismissal cases are difficult to prove and win.” He added that this particular subject matter is “underdeveloped in South Africa’s labour law”, and says he will await proper legal advice on whether the ruling can be taken on review. According to the CCMA ruling, Lackay failed to state “constructive dismissal” for his exit at the time. SARS said yesterday that it welcomed the ruling, which “confirms our long-held view that Lackay was aware that he had no case but proceeded with frivolous allegations as part of a broader campaign to cast aspersions and tarnish the revenue service’s name”. Lackay claims that his working conditions became unbearable and he was dismissed after Moyane took over as SARS commissioner in 2015. He had worked at SARS for 12 years. -BERNARD SATHEKGE