A dossier titled “CR17 Operation Mayibuye” and purporting to come from Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign team has caused a stir. The document, targeting delegates at the ANC’s elective conference this weekend, seeks to discredit Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s campaign and is a bid to convince delegates not to vote for her in the tussle for the party’s top post. The document also urges delegates to ask President Jacob Zuma about his abuse of public funds, his son Edward and an uncomplimentary remark he had made about his deputy, Rampahosa. The letter, which apparently is part of Operation Mayibuye, a campaign to ensure Rampahosa’s election as the new ANC president, was said to have been sent in good time for representatives to familiarise themselves with is contents. It has been produced by an group calling itself CR17 Intellectual Unity. The document also puts forward Housing Minister Lindiwe Sisulu as deputy president in place of Naledi Pando, the candidate Ramaphosa has announced in his slate. According to the dossier, Ramaphosa  is leading the presidential race. But a lot of work has to be done to secure a two-thirds majority. “This is possible if you delegates vote correctly so that we save ANC from those who have auctioned The New Age, state-owned enterprises and the SABC to the Guptas. It is extremely painful that The New Age of Ruth First, Govan Mbeki, Brian Bunting is now a property of foreign family.” The vitriolic document, which also targets Dlamini Zuma, claims it contains “facts, truths and analysis of our ANC and South Africa. That is why it must be given to each delegate on time to consume it”. It also urges delegates to ask the outgoing president of the ANC to explain why he did not adhere to the call of the ANC Integrity Committee and resign. On Grace Mugabe, the document advises delegates to ask Zuma “what is the difference between what you do with what Grace Mugabe and Robert Mugabe were doing but backfired?” Zuma, according to the letter, wants Dlamini Zuma to succeed him because he fears going to jail, he does not trust Ramaphosa, former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and other whistleblow  ers regarding his shenanigans with the Gupta family. “Dlamini Zuma will protect him in the same way Richard Mdluli, John Hlophe, Ben Ngubane, Jimmy Manyi, Bathabile Dlamini, Dudu Myeni, Carl Niehaus (the only white comrade who was jailed who supports him), Nomgcobo Jiba, Tom Moyane, Hlaudi Motsoeneng and many do,” the letter claimed. Not sparing Dlamini Zuma, the document asks if she, given the ruling of the North Gauteng High Court on Wednesday, shared the views of her mobilisation executive committee about Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, Social Services Minister Bathabile Dlamini, The New Age proprietor Mzwandile Manyi, Free State Premier Ace Magashule, KwaZulu-Natal ANC leader Sihle Zikalala, as well as Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza. The Dlamini Zuma camp did not want to respond to a document it had no knowledge of. Neither ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe or national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa could be reached for comment. Sources in Ramaphosa’s camp has confirmed knowledge of the document but denied that they were the authors. dennisc@thenewage.co.za