The problem of two centres of power created by Cyril Ramaphosa becoming the president of the ANC has now come under the spotlight. President Jacob Zuma is entering the final stretch of his presidency, which ends in 2019, unless it is brought to a halt by a recall by the ruling party. Fears are mounting that an all out tug-of-war between the ANC’s headquarters, Luthuli House and the Presidency could come materialise if the party does not find a compromise and unity immediately. The recent bitter succession battle to find Zuma’s successor could be an indicator of things to come. Ramaphosa’s campaign manager in KwaZulu-Natal Sthembiso Mshengu said unity in the ANC should be maintained irrespective of who is at the head of affairs. “The unity of the ANC is not dependent on who is leading today or who is leading tomorrow. The ANC has to adopt a critical programme to educate our members on our role as members of the ANC. “The centre of power is the ANC. The centre of the alliance nationally is at Luthuli House.” This comes as uncertainty continued to prevail over the commitment to unity among the ANC’s mixed bag of newly elected top six national officials. In an exclusive interview with The New Age last month, Zuma vowed to complete his term as leader of the country. Political commentators and analysts have also argued that attempts to rejig the party’s newly elected national officials at the ANC’s 54th National Elective Conference this week, presented a glaring divergence from calls by senior party leaders for the new leadership to work towards fostering unity. This was said against the backdrop of threats from Senzo Mchunu’s supporters, aggrieved that their preferred candidate for the party’s positions of secretary-general lost out to Ace Magashule, threatened court action if a voter recount over the so-called 68 missing votes was not held. While Ramaphosa edged out Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma by over 170 votes, Magashule’s victory over Mchunu underlined the ongoing battle between Dlamini Zuma loyalists and factions who were backers of Ramaphosa. However, Mshengu said that Mchunu denied having instructed anyone to legally challenge the outcome of the ANC secretary-general vote. “Senzo Mchunu has not instructed any lawyer to file papers in any court in South Africa. If there is anyone, from KwaZulu-Natal or Limpopo, who is going to court, they are within their rights to do so.” MK Military Veterans Association national spokesperson Carl Niehaus said, despite the prospects of divisions in the ANC spilling over into the tenure of the party’s newly elected national executive committee (NEC), the party needed to close ranks. “Let’s keep our heads and hands together and hope that the ANC will emerge the winner in this situation,” Niehaus said. -bonolos@thenewage.co.za