The DA says, despite an election of the new ANC leadership next week, incidents of corruption will never stop while the party is still in charge. DA national spokesperson and the party’s deputy chairperson Refiloe Nt’sekhe was speaking outside East London police station earlier today, after laying charges of corruption against former Eastern Cape treasury head and current province director-general Marion Mbina-Mthembu. The party has accused Mbina-Mthembu of authorising decisions described by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane as “irrational” and “unlawful”. The DA said it had read the Public Protector’s report on former President Nelson Mandela’s Funeral and was painfully alarmed that money meant for education was misused. The party said it was only right that Mbina-Mthembu and others under investigation were held fully accountable for their role in the theft of R330 million. “R330 million meant for the eradication of mud schools and delivering electricity to villages was used to buy T-shirts. What kind of government steals from its people? What kind of government undermines the future of the youth in order to buy T-shirts? ” Nt’sekhe said. Nt’sekhe said the party believed Mbina-Mthembu had violated a number of laws and the Constitution of the country. “Treasury Regulations and the Public Finance Management Finance Act are important pieces of legislation which speak to the conduct of the state. It cannot be business as usual while laws and the people are actively and illegally undermined.” She said the party would be writing to National Police Commissioner Kehla Sitole to ask for an update on the charges that its instituted for the corruption related to Mandela’s funeral. Nt’sekhe said the DA would ask Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, as instructed by the Public Protector, to write to President Jacob Zuma to sign a proclamation directing the Special Investigating Unit to investigate a litany of illegal transgressions. According to Nt’sekhe, the party may institute a civil action suit in order to recover the loss of public money by organs of state in the procurement of goods and services for Mandela’s funeral. -TNA Reporter