ANOTHER prominent leader of the ANC Women’s League, Water Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, has sharply criticised Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa for remarks he has made on the rape trial in which President Jacob Zuma was acquitted in 2005. Her remarks have muddied the waters as the ANC leadership election approaches, with Ramaphosa not being spared some harsh words. Last week, in remarks that have been widely reported including on the BBC, Ramaphosa said on a talk radio programme he “would believe” that Khwezi Fezekile Kuzwayo, who had accused Zuma of raping her, was indeed raped. Ramaphosa’s sentiments, which he has not publicly expressed until now, have angered some close to Zuma, with some admonishing him for his silence and only speaking now when the ANC leadership elective conference is at hand. Mokonyane said: “You laugh like that but deep down in your heart you are saying ‘you damn rapist’. I couldn’t believe that we have a leader of that nature. Why did he remain quiet? At that time it was better because he was a businessman. He walked away and now he says all these things and by the way, fighting a man he knows is leaving.” Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini said: “The deputy president of the ANC, comrade Cyril Ramaphosa, spoke about president Jacob Zuma and we want to say: ‘comrade Cyril, comrade deputy president, if you want to speak out about violence against women and children, talk about yourself’.” Criticism aimed at Ramaphosa also came from Sihle Zikalala, chairperson of ANC in KwaZulu-Natal. “If comrade Cyril saw that Khwezi was talking the truth, why then did he remain silent? Why is it that he is only speaking about it now? Cyril’s desperation does not surprise me,” Zikalala said. Meanwhile, Ramaphosa, who seems to have garnered the majority of votes from branches to be crowned Zuma’s successor next week, has said he was not in favour of a proposal that the candidate losing out on the big prize should become ANC deputy president. He said Zuma had broached this idea at a policy conference but said that it had not gained traction. “There was a sense that all this should be left to branches because they are the repository of democratic practice in the ANC. “And if you agree that branches are the real lifeblood of democracy in the ANC, then you should let them decide. It is firmly my view,” he said. Meanwhile a group of disgruntled ANC members of Parliament including KwaZulu-Natal MP Mervyn Dirks, who are unhappy with the leadership of ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu, have declared that they will try not to have him elected to the National Executive Committee. “At conference we will discuss many issues. We will also discuss the issue of performance of ANC deployees in government and Parliament. We won’t support him for the NEC. “I will raise it. We want to ensure that people like Jackson get removed from (leadership) positions. Jackson is using Parliament as a launching pad to fight his own narrow factional battle against the president and certain members of the Cabinet,” Dirks said. However, Mthembu was unperturbed by this threat. “The provinces have put me on the national executive committee. The Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal have put me on as an additional member. They will have one hell of a mountain to climb,” he said. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN dennisc@thenewage.co.za