It remains to be seen whether SABC viewers will be afforded the opportunity to watch the ANC elective conference this weekend following a threat by striking employees to shut down operations if their demands of a 10% salary increase are not met. The disgruntled employees affiliated with the Communications Workers Union (CWU) and Broadcasting, Electronic, Media and Allied Workers Union (Bemacu) marched outside the corporation’s headquarters in Johannesburg yesterday. A memorandum was handed over to management. Aubrey Tshabalala from CWU said the increase offered by the SABC was an insult. “They’ve offered 4.5% which they were supposed to backdate for nine months but they’ve only backdated it for six months. When you spread it for a year it means that the actual salary increase that they’re giving workers is R2200,” Tshabalala said. While not all workers had downed tools, programming was affected. The union said the timing of the strike was not specifically planned to coincide with the ANC’s elective conference. Bemawu president Hannes du Buisson said: “Middle management has indicated support for the strike. We had meetings with them yesterday and we had meetings with a number of freelancers. They are of course two groups who have been grossly neglected by the SABC.” The unions went on strike last month after negotiations deadlocked after they demanded a 10% salary increase backdated to April from the cash-strapped public broadcaster. Meanwhile, Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane called on all stakeholders at the SABC to engage in peaceful and constructive wage negotiations. Kubayi-Ngubane said she respected the constitutional right of workers to embark on a protest action and believed that peaceful wage increase negotiations should not be subordinated to strike action. She said the SABC has a public mandate to provide citizens with information regarding various issues in society. She implored for an amicable solution to be found. kutullom@thenewage.co.za