THE ANC Youth League (ANCYL) yesterday said that despite deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa leading the nomination race, anything can happen come the ANC elective conference in eight days’ time. The ANCYL are known supporters of Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s presidential campaign. ANCYL national executive council member Thabo Mmutle said: I acknowledge that Ramaphosa is leading the nominations. However, they remain as nominations. Come the actual conference, things can change and even ANC presidential candidates who have never been nominated by any branch could emerge and pose a significant challenge. Anything can still happen.” Mmutle said ANC presidential candidates could be nominated from the floor, which is regarded as the processes of the ANC. With the nomination processes for the ANC presidency being wrapped up, Ramaphosa has the backing of Gauteng, Limpopo and the Eastern, Western and Northern Cape, while his rival, Dlamini Zuma, has the Free State, North West and KwaZulu Natal. Mpumalanga nominated for “unity” and another presidential hopeful, Mathews Phosa, disputed that the Mpumalanga provincial general council (PGC) was lawful. Phosa filed a court challenge to the North Gauteng High Court to nullify the Mpumalanga PGC’s outcomes. The matter will be heard on Tuesday. In the run up to the elective conference, bold statements were made during campaigning, one of which was that the elective conference would be a “do-or-die conference for the ANC”. The do-or-die statement was made by Ramaphosa during his campaign in Soshanguve, Pretoria last month. Speaking to The New Age yesterday, political analyst Sipho Seepe said: “The elective conference should not be a place of do or die. It should rather be a place for a renewal of the ANC. Ramaphosa using words like do or die is fear-mongering.” Seepe said the language used by Ramaphosa was reflective of the tone of his supporters. “It is probably do or die for him and not do or die for the ANC as a political organisation,” Seepe said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -Bonolo Selebano