THE Cabinet last Friday approved a new board for Eskom in a bid to shake up the embattled power utility and take decisive action to address governance facing the company. Towards the end of September Business Leadership South Africa suspended the membership of both Eskom and Transnet and cited connections with “extensive allegations of corrupt behaviour” over a long period and lack of governance issues. The power utility has been at the heart of allegations of illegal contracts and undue influence in awarding tenders. Again last month the power utility confirmed that it was in financial crisis, but denied it was on the brink of collapse. It said plans were in place to deal with the situation. Eskom’s poor governance has left it teetering on the edge of insolvency and reportedly with only R1.2bn of liquidity reserves expected to be in hand as of end of last month. But Eskom has since dismissed the R1.2bn figure and said that reserves were low but not near insolvency level, and that its liquidity position was much better than the R1.2bn bandied about in the press. Public Enterprises Lynne Brown said last Friday the new Eskom board comprised of at least seven interim board members, as well as new members Malegapuru Makgoba and Tshepo Mongalo. Overall, the board comprises on incumbent interim chairperson Zethembe Khoza and interim members Pat Naidoo, Giovanni Leonardi, Pulane Molokwane, Simphiwe Dingaan, Banothile Makhubela, Sathiaseelan Gounden and two new members, Malegapuru Makgoba and Tshepo Mongalo. Makgoba is the incumbent health ombudsman, while Mongalo is an academic and expert in company law, Brown said. “These arrangements provide continuity at a difficult time for Eskom and I urge the board to be strong in the face of adversity and remain diligent,” Brown said. She said he appointing a new chief executive would remain a priority. This while credit ratings agencies warned that state firms such as Eskom should be reformed and cite the cost of propping them up as a threat to public finances. “I will be instructing the board that the appointment of a new group chief executive is an urgent matter and absolute priority. “These issues must be addressed in order to improve the Eskom brand, investor confidence and performance of the company at all levels,” she said. It was widely expected that Brown would make big adjustments, but she opted to appoint only two new people, and also opted to kept Khoza despite the controversy surrounding him. Brown said her strategy is to recruit specialist business expertise to fill four additional vacant board positions prior to the annual general meeting in June 2018. The new Eskom board will serve for the next three years. The board also had to deal decisively with the audit qualification to avoid a repeat and ensuing investigations. She said the suspensions at executive committee level should be prioritised and finalised expeditiously. Makgoba was appointed the first black deputy vice-chancellor at Wits in 1995, thereafter joining the Medical Research Council where he was appointed chairperson and later president. He was intimately involved in developing South Africa’s strategy on HIVAids and the SA Aids Vaccine Initiative. He joined the former University of Natal as its vice-chancellor in 2002 and oversaw its merger with the University of Durban-Westville into the University of KwaZulu-Natal. -BERNARD SATHEKGE With Reuters |bernards@thenewage.co.za