WITS coach Gavin Hunt believes it will be difficult to catch Mamelodi Sundowns once they start pulling away from the rest of the PSL’s chasing pack. Sundowns are leading the log standings, two points ahead of second-placed Orlando Pirates with three matches in hand. Hunt, whose side is 11 points behind Sundowns and sitting at the bottom of the log, feels they will need a “hell of a run” if they are to catch up with them. “It’s going to be difficult to catch anybody like Sundowns. “They got the squad, they got experience and they are a very good side,” Hunt said. “But we can’t worry about them now. We are nine points from the top. “Okay, the games are running out, you have to go on a hell of a run.” Hunt also admitted that his position on the log standings is a concern but that they are capable of turning things around. “It’s frustrating, I mean we are only 11 points from the top and we are rock bottom. And the games are moving now so we need to start making a strong move to win games. “We’ve been poor at home and good away, that’s football.” As with other teams in the league, Wits’s problem has been failing to score goals this season. They have only found the back of the net seven times in 13 matches and will need to improve if they are to start winning games. “Well that’s the story of our season. “I mean we actually played better this year than we did last year,” Hunt said. “Last year this time we were well clear winning the league. “The guys are missing from two yards but what can you do, you just have to keep believing and keep working. “As I said, we have played better this year than we did last year by far. “We played much better football but we lost and we are the bottom of the league. “We are going to work ourselves out of it and we can. “We are good enough to win several games in a row, but we can’t miss the chances we are missing. “Had we scored half of the chances we had this season, we would have been top and clear but we haven’t. “We need to get our league position right, we can’t keep on going like this draw after draw, we need to win games.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za