A total of 1120 more people died on the roads last year, compared to 2015, the Road Traffic Management Corporation said. This marks a 9% increase in car crash victims and the figures may increase this year. “The statistics are troubling and heartrending. We may know one of these victims, if not, they still matter as they once were someone else’s loved one,” the Road Accident Fund said. Despite this, the organisation says road users persist in disobeying the rules of the road by not buckling up their children, texting while driving, walking drunk on the side of the road, refusing to take two-hourly rest breaks during a long trip, or speeding in order to pick up the next taxi load of passengers. “The RAF appeals to road users through its festive season campaign to #AlwaysRemember to take the necessary precautions when travelling on South Africa’s roads. Remind others as well,” the RAF said. Meanwhile, Tshwane police have advised citizens to remain observant as crime increases during this period. “Theft out of a motor vehicle, common robberies, bogus salespersons and bogus prophets are among some of our most common crimes reported in Pretoria central. “Stokvel monies are now being targeted, we urge stokvel clubs to ask for advice from the bank, to assist in electronic money transfer rather than carrying large sums of money and be robbed,” Pretoria central police spokesperson, Capt Augustinah Selepe said. She said police are intensifying operations on identified hot spots and conducting awareness campaigns at the malls to prevent crime increasing within the CBD and to create a safer and secure environment. “We urge the public to exercise caution when parking their vehicles. Smash and grab robbers prey on unsuspecting drivers in traffic lights, parking lots and stop streets. Criminals usually target drivers who are alone but women are a favourite target. “Conceal valuables such as handbags, cellphones and other expensive items either when walking or driving in the CBD, avoid giving criminals any bait that might attract them,” she said. Selepe said Church Square and adjacent streets are being targeted where there are more shoppers. The following streets are being affected by criminal activities – Thabo Sehume and Madiba, Steve Biko, Bosman and Nana Sita, Sophie De Bruyn, Nelson Mandela, Madiba, Johannes Ramokhoase, Bloed Mall, Bosman Station, Sammy Marks Square, Eeufees, inside Fountain Valley and other streets that have congested traffic and a movement of people. “More people are visiting the CBD to attend social areas such as (taverns, pubs, parks and nightclubs) make sure you carry what is necessary to be used. Park your car in a protected parking and well-lit area. Men need be vigilant of easy ladies at the nightclubs, they are not out there seeking for entertainment or love, but rather to drug you, rob you of all valuables and take off with your car. “There is a group of men operating within the CBD who claim to know you and how to help you to get more money and luck. They prophesied to know about your personal life, family and future. “They will take all your valuables and disappear. In some instances, they will give you a stone and point out a road intersection where you must drop that stone, or ask you to run to buy water to pray for it, on your return they have disappeared with your entire luggage. Beware of bogus prophets,” Selepe said. ntombin@thenewage.co.za