THE Life Esidimeni Arbitration Hearing sat for the last time this year on Friday where Gauteng’s suspended head of department Dr Barney Selebano wrapped up his testimony. Now families look forward to the testimony of former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu. Mahlangu resigned on the eve of the release of the report into circumstances surrounding the death of 143 psychiatric patients in Gauteng. Suspended director of mental health services Dr Makgabo Manamela and Selebano have played the blame game pointing fingers at each other and the “collective”. Regarding Manamela’s role, Selebano said: “It would be sad if she claimed to be an innocent bystander.” Under cross-examination, Selebano conceded signing the termination letter that ended a long-running contract with Life Healthcare Esidimeni group and the deadly and chaotic Mental Health Marathon Project was a bad decision. Selebano said given the opportunity to do things differently he would not have signed the termination letter. Selebano, like other senior officials, testified he was scared to challenge Mahlangu despite knowing the project could have negative consequences. The project manager, Levy Mosenogi, testified of the culture of fear during the execution of the Mental Health Marathon Project saying the project was pushed ahead despite his objections and alternative plans raised during meeting. Mosenogi testified that at one point while attending a meeting he raised the issue and was asked by Mahlangu if he was a spokesperson for Life Esidimeni. Mosenogi’s testimony has been corroborated by Selebano and family members who claim that during heated meetings with officials, they could see Mosenogi was sympathetic to their plight but seemed like he was under pressure from “above”. Selebano told the tribunal he was instructed by Mahlangu to sign the letter. When asked why he did not make sure that patients were taken to suitable NGOs, Selebano said he relied on his staff. He denied that he was negligent, however, conceded that patients died as a result of the negligence of the Gauteng department of health. Both Selebano and Manamela were forced to testify following a string of failed attempts to avoid accounting for the tragedy. Now families wait with bated breath to hear what the former department head has to say about her role in what has been dubbed the worst tragedy since Marikana. Mahlangu testifies next month. SUSPENDED: Gauteng health HoD Dr Barney Selebano.  -LERATO DIALE|leratod@thenewage.co.za