South  Africa needs to get out of the mire of being the most corrupt nation former finance minister Pravin Gordhan said. Speaking on the ANC’s elective conference and the unanimous judgment of the Gauteng North High Court, which on Wednesday endorsed the remedial action recommended by the former public protector Gordhan said the court ruling was correct because President Zuma was conflicted and could not appoint the judge to head a judicial commission of inquiry. The court endorsed former public protector, Thuli Madonsela’s recommendation that Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng should appoint the judge who would chair the commission. Gordhan said that while the ruling was an indication that state capture was real, South Africans should not lose hope. “What we want in South Africa is to get out of this mire of being called the most corrupt nation in the world,” he said. He said that building a democracy took time and that the country should not lose hope. “These are one of the difficult times we are going through. The courts have demonstrated that there are institutions that work. We should never lose hope.” “We want to regain hope in our society. We want to see prospects of prosperity for all our people and in particular job creation for all our people in an economic environment where we truly see no fundamental transformation of our economy.” Gordhan is reportedly earmarked for the position of finance minister should Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa win the ANC elections this weekend. However, ANC national executive committee member Lindiwe Sisulu’s ambition to become the party’s next deputy president cannot be deterred as she wants to be begged by Ramaphosa if he wins the heavily contested leadership race. Sisulu accepted defeat of her presidential bid, however she has garnered the most branch nominations for the position of ANC deputy president alongside ANC Mpumalanga chairperson David Mabuza and treasurer general Zweli Mkhize. “I have had a conversation with Cyril, I am waiting for him to go down on one knee and ask, ‘will you be my deputy?’” Sisulu said. She has disregarded Ramaphosa’s preferred candidate for deputy presidential, Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor. Pandor emerged as Ramaphosa’s preferred candidate for deputy president after he pronounced his slate dubbed the “A Team”. It was rumoured that Sisulu was approached by Ramaphosa to be his deputy president, which she reportedly declined. She told The New Age the encounter never happened and brushed it off as a rumour. “The fact is I was never approached and therefore I could not have declined something that did not exist. I am on record for detesting slates as they are destroying the ANC and undermining its ability to play its role of being the leader of society. “I would therefore not want to be associated with slates or factions,” Sisulu said. sifisom@thenewage.co.za