With R30m worth of cocaine seized at airports across the country since October, South African law enforcement agencies are engaged in a renewed battle against persistent drug smuggling. The country’s three main entry points – OR Tambo International Airport (ORT), Cape Town International Airport and King Shaka in KZN – appear to be targeted by the smugglers. This week, a passenger arriving from Angola at Cape Town airport was found, after an X-ray of his abdomen, to have swallowed cocaine bullets of an unknown value. The so-called junkie flights from Sao Paulo to Johannesburg also seem in full swing with a woman arrested at ORT last month, with cocaine pills in her stomach. The 38-year-old woman was arrested after a physical search proved unsuccessful. She was taken to a local hospital where X-rays were taken. “The X-ray revealed foreign objects in the shape of bullets. The bullets, suspected to be cocaine, were retrieved and they will be sent to our forensic science laboratory for analysis,” a SARS customs statement said. Cape Town had three other drug busts in October with regular, almost weekly drug busts at OR Tambo in October and November. In November SARS customs officials arrested two foreign nationals from Nigeria carrying 15.1kg of cocaine valued at R4.5m. Last month, customs officials seized cocaine worth an estimated R9m in two separate incidents. The first incident involved a passenger disembarking from a Sao Paulo flight via Johannesburg in transit to Mozambique. After a scan of the passenger’s luggage, 90 wooden sticks were found in boxes, which tested positive for cocaine. The 25kg of cocaine with a street value of over R7m were confiscated by the police. In late October, heroin disguised as mascara and valued at R3.1m, was found by sniffer dogs at King Shaka International Airport. In a similar incident at OR Tambo earlier this year, cocaine valued at R7.4m from Sao Paulo, was seized. The drug mule was in transit to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. “The shipment of narcotics was discovered when officers identified the cosmetic products for inspection when the detector dog gave a positive indication,” a SARS statement said. Research director at the African Policing Civilian Oversight Forum, Dr Simon Howell, told The New Age that South Africa was a springboard for the smuggling of cocaine and other drugs through Africa, mainly to the EU. He said that South Africa was also a conduit for drugs like heroin from the Middle East to the US market. Additionally, South Africa exports methamphetamine and marijuana to other countries. He says the country’s good infrastructure is the primary reason South Africa is being used as a transit hub. Howell said there have been instances in the past where corrupt officials have been implicated in the transit of illegal contraband. He noted, however, corruption was not as rife compared to 10 years ago. “The airports and border patrol units have teamed up and they’re doing a good job,” Powell said. “Drug distribution does not necessarily follow traditional patterns but South Africa isn’t doing too badly at the moment in curbing the scourge,” he said. Airports Company South Africa spokesperson Kutlwano Mtyeku said the company could not comment publicly on matters that fall outside of its direct response when asked about the smuggling of drugs through the country’s airports. “Each airport engages regularly with relevant departments in the national, provincial and local government on operational issues and matters of mutual concern,” she said. zodidim@thenewage.co.za