ANC presidential hopeful and national assembly speaker Baleka Mbete yesterday felt concerned about the nature of lobbying and campaigning in the ANC ahead of the party’s elective conference which is 15 days away. Mbete is one of three women that includes human settlements minister Lindiwe Sisulu and ANC MP Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma all of which are vying for the ANC’s top post. While speaking to The New Age Mbete sought to explain the reasons for her rather inconspicuous campaign and what makes her ready to be the first female ANC president. “I have stated publicly that we come from an era where money did not play a big role in leadership but things seem to have changed where we see lobbying and campaigning in the ANC taking a different shape of western democracies,” Mbete said. According to Mbete the nature of how finances play a role in lobbying and campaigning is something the ANC is trying to grapple with and regulate. This is in order to make sure that the playing field and rules of the game are clear for everyone. Regarding what makes her believe she is ready to lead the ANC, Mbete said: “the ANC has invested in me and I have also gained the necessary experience in various structures of the party and government to be able to make a contribution.” Over a week ago ANCYL secretary general Meokgo Mathuba said the time is long overdue for the first female ANC president. The ANCWL has endorsed Dlamini-Zuma for the ANC presidency. This is something Mbete believes does not hinder her campaign in terms of galvanising support. “It is important to note that when going to the elective conference, delegates are drawn from structures of the ANC and not leagues. I have noted the decision of the ANCWL NEC,” Mbete said. Mbete said she will leave the decision to delegates in terms of her being the next ANC president. “Our approach has been to allow the branches and delegates space to engage on the question of leadership and policies to take the ANC forward,” Mbete said. REFILWE MAGASHULE