WINNING the Telkom Knockout was exactly what Bidvest Wits needed to turn around their PSL season, coach Gavin Hunt has said. The Clever Boys were crowned champions after edging Bloemfontein Celtic 1-0 in the final at Princess Magogo Stadium on Saturday with Vincent Pule scoring the winner in injury time. Wits have done very little to suggest they could defend their league title as they sit at the foot of the log and Hunt hopes that winning the title on Saturday will now spur them on to do better in the league where they have only registered two wins. “As I said now, the four games we won in the cup, if we won them in the league we would be top of the log standings, that’s how crazy the league is at the moment,” Hunt said after the game. “You would like to think this will turn our season around, but we will try to juggle a little bit for Wednesday against Ajax Cape Town and see what we have got and what sort of condition we are in. “But I can’t change too much because we don’t have too much. Young Pule who scored the goal is not really a striker, he is more of a wide player but we are playing him there because we don’t have players in that position.” With Wits 10 points behind log leaders Baroka FC in the PSL standings, Hunt feels his side can still defend the league title. “If you look at the table this year, we are 10 points behind with a game in hand and we are bottom. It’s crazy. “I don’t think anybody will get more than 60 points. SuperSport United can and so can Sundowns because they are in a good position in the league and have a big squad. The rest of us I don’t know, we will try to play catch up.” Hunt, who has now won all the trophies on offer on the domestic front with different teams was pleased with his side’ss overall performance. “All in all very happy with the performance, I thought it was good. Again I say, when we get our players back we are a different team. “We looked different defensively. I thought we were good where we had to be and I thought over the 90 minutes we were okay.”  -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za