A LOT has been written about South Africa’s disappointing loss to France to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup, which is why it’s taken me this long to add my two cents’ worth. This is not the first time that South Africa has come up short in its bid to bring the tournament to these shores – and that is why SA Rugby only agreed to put forward their bid for 2023 only if the bid process was transparent. With France coming out victorious, it was obvious that money talks. The euro, the pound and the yen will always trump the rand. So what to do then, to get the Rugby World Cup to South Africa? As the World Rugby technical report showed, the country has a lot going for it. Big, modern stadiums, a rugby-mad public, great tourism spots – basically the world in one. Still that was not enough to convince those who cast their votes. The problem lies with the Springbok team. Our national team simply has to claim its rightful place at the summit of the sport. History shows that it was always the Boks and the All Blacks contesting the mantle of best team on the planet – but the Boks recently have been living off past glories. It’s no longer enough to say that barely 22 years ago, the head-to-head clashes against New Zealand were tilted in favour of the Springboks. Since then, the All Blacks have streaked ahead in a major way. And it does not help when along the way you get pasted 57-0. When World Rugby awarded New Zealand the right to host the 2011 edition, they knew very well that it would not be profitable. Though passionate about rugby, New Zealand is a small country with a small economy. But there is no way to ignore the mighty All Blacks and their contribution to the modern game. In as much as I’m patriotic and support the Boks all the way, just like most rugby enthusiasts, I admire New Zealand’s dedicated approach to the sport. And that should be the aim of SA Rugby. To get the Springboks up to that level – to rekindle the rivalry with the All Blacks to its true essence. Not losing to them by one point and we celebrate, or beating them once every 10 matches, in a meaningless Rugby Championship Test at Ellis Park and go wild. New Zealand beat the Boks 57-0, the aim should be to return the favour. Of course avoiding that scoreline in the first place is the way to go. The Boks have to contribute to world rugby in the same way the All Blacks do. And that way it would be difficult to deny South Africa the right to organise the world tournament. It’s either that or outbid other countries and pay exorbitant amounts of money. Personally, I would like to see the Boks regain their place of pride in world rugby. The pain of losing to Japan and Italy would then be confined to the history books and the aura of the Boks would be enhanced. When will that day come? Edwin Kgaswe is the ANN7 sports/news editor