The sixth annual Ebubeleni Music Festival will once again wow Eastern Cape music fans with another thrilling outdoor music experience. The show will take place at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Saturday, December 30, with a “carefully selected line up of local stars catering to the tastes of both and young audiences. Some of the country’s leading stars on the line-up include Afro-pop duo Mafikizolo, who are celebrating 20 years in the music business this year, as well as seasoned performers and legendary couple, Caiphus Semenya and Letta Mbulu, Sama award winner Amanda Black, rapper AKA, R&B and soul singers, Jaziel Brothers and singer Samthing Soweto of Akanamali fame. Other heavy hitters earmarked for the occasion include house music vocalist Lady Zamar, vocalist rapper Sjava, and Swaziland’s very own Sands of Tigi Tigi. Speaking to The New Age, the festival’s project manager, Marc Mahambehlala, said the show had become the region and Nelson Mandela Bay metro’s flagship event aimed at improving cultural tourism. “Ebubeleni Music Festival has become a cultural tourism attraction and flagship event that has all the hallmarks and potential to be now compared with other big national events in the country. Last year close to 17000 people attended the festival and it is now a highly anticipated event on most music lovers’ festive season entertainment calendar,” he said. Ebubeleni contributes to efforts of boosting local economic and tourism development of the city and is one of the few platforms for local artists from the Eastern Cape, as well as artists from other provinces, to showcase their talents. Tourism has seen an increase in visitor numbers in the Bay during the festive season, especially around the festival dates. Ebubeleni means “a friendly place” and PE is known as a welcoming city because of the hospitality of its people towards strangers. Hence the name Ebubeleni. The Bay has reclaimed its friendly city status because of this event. Ebubeleni Music Festival was awarded the Beat Magazine Eastern Cape Event of the Year Award for 2015’s event. The growth of this festival has seen its support by revellers, primarily and initially from the Nelson Mandela Bay metro increase to a national event status seeing revellers from all over the country’s nine provinces trek down to Port Elizabeth to enjoy the festival. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za