The ANC convenes its 54th elective conference in Johannesburg tomorrow. Events leading up to the conference have seen the party at its weakest level since its formation. Among the key issues on the agenda is the election of a successor to Jacob Zuma, a new leadership and a raft of policy proposals. In an exclusive interview with The New Age, deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte spoke to Bonolo Selebano on some of the key challenges confronting the party and how the conference will provide solutions towards addressing these challenges. Question: Are you excited about the conference? Answer: It’s been many months of planning in terms of logistics and looking at ANC processes on the ground. It comes with a great deal of working with a powerful technical team. What are your expectations for this conference? I’m hoping that the ANC on December 20 will have a new leadership that will unite our organisation with a powerful programme of action to ensure that the ANC expands its influence to assist us to build and to keep to our promise of building a non-racial, non-sexist, united democratic and prosperous South Africa. And that we’ll be able to have policy certainty on the matters of our economy, on the land question issue among others. And that we will walk away with the ANC leadership that we all will walk behind. What about the proposal to expand the ANC top six? We will receive a report on the first day of conference which will enable us to make a decision either way. The constitution requires us to circulate any recommended changes to the constitution. There are strong views for an expanded officials and for a contracted NEC. So it could go either way. Is it not time for electoral reform in the ANC? At the moment our system calls for the branches of the ANC to be the ultimate decision maker. If one examines a branch, a branch is located in a ward and the ward is supposed to represent a cross-section of society so technically we could argue that when branches made recommendations, they’re talking to a broad cross-section of people in the community. If we continue on the trajectory which empowers the branches to be the final decision maker that enables us to find a reasonable amount of comfort in that we’re speaking for more than one or two people. So a branch delegate carries a heavy mandate. In terms of electoral reform in the broader sense. We are always open to new ideas but for the moment the power in the branches is the best option. But the sad thing about this conference is the kind of US-style campaigning where people nominated themselves and didn’t wait for branches to speak, and made themselves available. Every organisation has a culture and a culture that is in the ANC is humility and unfortunately in this particular instance that was absent. Also, the manner in which our alliance partners behaved was unacceptable for Cosatu as well as the SACP whom nobody denies have an interest in who will lead the ANC and the country. But the manner in which they have behaved is that they have decided that there is one option and one option only. That takes away impetus from branch members. The issue that causes problems is not the system, – the real problem is the fact that in a country where you have a high level of unemployment, the leadership of the ANC is also seen as the potential for employment. Either you’re going to be an MP, MPL or counsellor. Are you concerned that this conference will see instances of vote buying. No one can deny that there has been a lot money floating around and if you go to branches, people will say, look we have been approached by xyz people and so and so has come along and said if we vote for this particular candidate, we will get a sum of money. The question of money playing a role is there. There should never have been this Hollywood style of electioneering. We’ve always been an organisation that looks at ability, that allows the branches to examine and to debate the person who they want to lead them into the future. I think we will do so, because the media has not been helpful. Looking at individuals rather than the content of our policies. What the media voice are that it listen to minimalist voices, those are the voices that it carries instead of carrying the voices of the people. Your views on the SACP giving branch delegates pocket money to make them less susceptible to being bribed. It’s an interesting preventative mechanism. Why would you need to do that, it says a lot about the integrity of the people we are dealing with. To me, that’s quite shocking. On the other hand, remember that your branch mandate is your branch mandate, you are allowed to be persuaded, but not from a transactional point of view. The provincial secretary of the SACP is out of order. What about Jackson Mthembu’s claims of vote-rigging to favour Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma? I would seriously doubt the veracity of that statement. I think he’s got a very strong view. He’s made his view known publicly, he’s got a right to do so. What is wrong is a view that denigrates another person. One of the things that have been remarkable about Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma is that she has not ventured an opinion on another person. When you run out of ideas, you discuss people, rather than discussing the ideas of that person. What are your views about a power-sharing deal that includes two-deputy presidents? This is not the US. What is clear is that our branches have gone out of their way to look at a document that guides us called: Through the Eye of the Needle. A person who passes through the eye of the needle is someone who understands the values of the ANC, who understands its not about victory for yourself but its really about pulling together policies that will improve the lives of our people. So deals, I don’t know anything about that in the ANC. What I know in the ANC is that we come to a conference, we elect leaders and those leaders lead. What about Gayton McKenzie’s claim of a poising attempt on President Jacob Zuma at an ANC NEC top six meeting? I’ve never met Gayton McKenzie. I do remember a plate of vegetables that was put in front of the president, the president was uncomfortable with it. I took the plate and put it in the kitchen. I asked where the plate comes from, I got an answer and I left it there. Do you know who brought the plate. I don’t really want to go into that. I am uncomfortable with the version of a story that would ultimately not be discussed in the ANC. What I confirmed is what I saw. Do you know of any other attempts? Just like everyone else, the president after an attempt was made on his family, in his families circumstances, he also told that story. Its a terrible story if it has happened. Who ever did it is wrong, it is sad that people would want to harm anyone in that manner. However, I am a receiver of that particular set of circumstances directly from the president so my sympathy is towards him. I think the ANC’s attitude was that this must be investigated by the authorities that have the competency to investigate matters of this nature. It’s not a simple matter, it’s a reasonable matter. What is worrying for me is that the state is slow on this matter. I’m not happy about that because it cannot be true that the state does not know about this. Your views on Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa remarks on Kwezi? I think that first of all there is a mother of a daughter who had died, whom the consistent reopening of her child’s matter must be very painful. Secondly, any person who steps on graves to make themselves sound more genuine than any other person worries me a great deal. My question is if comrade Cyril was convinced as he says he is or was, why did he accept being deputy president to Jacob Zuma. He’s not the deputy president to another person. Rape is a serious crime of violence, its not a matter to joke about or use as a tool. I do not think that the deputy president should have done that. The deputy president is a astute person, he is also a lawyer and I think that the deputy president know that what he did was wrong and I hope that he will find it within himself to undo what he said. Who do you want to win this conference I strongly support a woman president for the ANC and the country. And I think that the time has come. I believe that Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma has the experience, both nationally and internationally to carry our country’s problem forward. A woman who is regarded by the continent as worthy surely is worthy in our country. I acknowledge that she is going to have quite a difficult time with South African businesses, but I think when they understand her integrity and courage and her understanding of the real needs of the people of South Africa, they are going to respect her and love her as they did Nelson Mandela. This is a person with real value. news@thenewage.co.za