KAIZER Chiefs coach Steve Komphela hopes their 1-0 win over Platinum Stars on Saturday will inspire some confidence heading into the final match of the year against Ajax Cape Town this weekend. Prior to their win against Platinum Stars, Chiefs had gone five matches without a victory and lost 1-0 loss to Chippa United on Wednesday. As they head into their final game this weekend at Moses Mabhida Stadium, Komphela is looking for a strong finish. “More to our supporters and our people than us it is never over up until we play a round of 30, at least this one will give us a bit of confidence when we go to Durban and try to finish Ajax Cape Town so that they can have a good Christmas,” Komphela said. “But also happy for the players, the first half was not good. I don’t know if it was during the day, I would say it was hot but I fell the ball was not going.” Komphela also praised senior players Siphiwe Tshabalala and Bernard Parker, who were both introduced in the second to change the game. Tshabalala scored late in the second half to give Chiefs the win. “The difference of Bernard Parker and Siphiwe Tshabalala when they came in we had some energy, there were more positives. “These are great experienced players they did help a lot. You could see from the cross and the finish from Shabba. “And they know how to read the game. It’s experience. You won’t go to the supermarket to buy that. We are happy for them and I think the decision we took by not starting them was okay. “I cannot imagine if we had started with them and then we played the way we did in the first half you cannot go into second gear. “The previous match took its toll and we are happy that at least we got them back and we will have to start thinking to go into Ajax and I think the decision not to start with them was okay. “But overall, we were fighting for three points so it can give us the confidence, you know how it is if you don’t win and your confidence gets knocked. “It was not an ugly win, but we can do better than this in terms of play but it will inspire us going forward.”  -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za