IT SEEMS like SuperSport United’s participation in the CAF Confederation Cup is taking its toll as they continue to struggle in the PSL. This after they suffered back-to-back defeats to Free State Stars and Baroka FC. Yesterday, United lost 3-1 to Baroka FC at Peter Mokaba Stadium and to record their third defeat of the season. Since they completed their Confederation Cup which ended in a defeat to TP Mazembe, SuperSport have only registered one victory and that was against Ajax Cape Town. Since then, they drew against Orlando Pirates and Cape Town City while losing to Free State Stars and now Baroka. This has come as a concern for coach Eric Tinkler who was left frustrated after the Free State Stars defeat and will be desperate for a result in their final match against Bloemfontein Celtic on Wednesday. His side has failed to produce the same performances they dished on route on reaching the final and look tired. For Baroka, this is a much needed victory with their last one having came on September 30 when they defeated Kaizer Chiefs 2-1 in Durban. The win saw them move to third on the PSL log standings from eight place comes as a huge relief having last recorded a victory in September. They made their intentions of winning the match clear with Lucky Nguzana opening the scoring after half hour mark with a tap in after he connected from Rudolph Kgaswane’s cross to give his side land going into the interval. SuperSport responded almost immediately after the interval with Azubuike Egwuekwe scoring with a header from a Thuso Phala corner kick. Despite having conceded an equaliser, Baroka continued to looked lively and search for the second. They were rewarded when Letladi Madubanya connected from Richard Matloga’s free kick to head home the second. After the goal, Baroka opted to sit back to protect their goal and wait to catch SuperSport on the counter. They achieved that as they put the game beyond SuperSport’s reach by scoring the third goal. It was a brilliant team goal with Mduduzi Mdatsane converting after he connected from Talent Chawapiwa’s sublime cross to make sure all three points stay in Polokwane. In other match yesterday, Golden Arrows and Maritzburg United played to a goalless draw at Princess Magogo Stadium. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za