TWO North West farmers accused of killing a teenager in Coligny return to court today in the North West High Court in Mmabatho after the case was postponed for another pretrial conference. Pieter Doorewaard, 26, and Phillip Schutte, 34, face charges of murder, intimidation, kidnapping, unlawful possession of a firearm, unlawful possession of ammunition, theft and pointing a firearm. The state alleges that the two killed Matlhomola Jonas Mosweu, 16, on April 20, at the Scotland informal settlement in Coligny. This after the pair accused the teenager of stealing sunflowers from their employer’s field. Mosweu’s death sparked outrage and triggered violent mass protests that left a trail of destruction in the small maize-growing town and divided the community along racial lines. Another murder accused, Marthinus Pelser, will appear In the Roodepoort Magistrates Court today. The case was postponed for final witnesses, judgment and sentencing. The 23-year-old Pelser allegedly murdered his six-month-old son in June last year. The baby was found with a fractured skull and multiple burn wounds, allegedly inflicted on the infant by Pelser. Pelser has pleaded not guilty. In Limpopo, the man dubbed the Doom prophet, Letheba Moncha Rabalego, will return to the Naboomspruit Magistrates Court for a trial. Rabalego is facing charges of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm after he sprayed his congregation with the insecticide Doom. He caused outrage last year when photographs of him spraying the insecticide on members of his church went viral on social media. Rabalego claimed the insecticide could heal any ailments. The court case of the 57-year-old scholar patrol officer who allegedly sexually abused 87 pupils at a school in Soweto returns to the Protea North Magistrates court on Friday. He faces charges of rape and sexual assault derived from 15 statements made by pupils. Meanwhile, the court is set to reconvene on Wednesday to decide on the legality of an ANC regional conference. Former Bojanala regional secretary Tokyo Mataboge and 39 others applied to the court to nullify the outcome of the local regional conference. The parties agreed to postpone the matter for applicants to file their supplementary affidavits in seven days after the respondent had filed papers before last Friday’s deadline. -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE|shonisanit@thenewage.co.za