I would like to think that most of us agree that apartheid was a radical programme of social engineering that has successfully continued to manifest itself in terms of the levels of inequality in South Africa. Those who argue that every malaise in South Africa is the ANC’s fault (and some continue to do so) are frankly, ungrateful for the gains made since 1994. To untangle such a reactionary system of oppression will require a radical response. To belabour the point – apartheid was highly successful in its brutality, which manifested itself in many forms – politically, socially and economically. Economic apartheid continues to stymie the potential of the majority of this country’s population. The poorest 20% of the South African population consume less than 3% of total expenditure, while the wealthiest 20% consume 65%. The World Bank says: “South Africa has made considerable strides toward improving the well-being of its citizens since its transition to democracy in the mid-1990s, but progress is slowing. Based on a poverty line of $1.90 (25.70)per day at Purchasing Power Parity, poverty fell from 33.8% in 1996 to 16.9% by 2008. “Factors driving this included social safety nets, real income growth, as well as decelerating inflationary pressure on households, the expansion of credit and growth in formal housing. Yet progress has slowed in recent years due to structural challenges and weak global growth since the global financial crisis of 2008. “Poverty was 16.6% in 2011, but World Bank estimates suggest poverty barely changed in 2016, dropping just marginally to an estimated 15.9%. “High unemployment remains a key challenge: South Africa’s unemployment rate hit a 12-year high in 2016, at 27.3% in the third quarter. The unemployment rate is even higher among youths, close to 50%.” The Bank has previously called South Africa one of the most unequal in the world in terms of wealth and wealth distribution. “South Africa remains a dual economy with one of the highest inequality rates in the world, perpetuating both inequality and exclusion.” So, another radical set of figures. So why all the fuss with radical economic transformation, which has to be the key to unlocking socio-economic imperatives. Why can’t the legacy of a system like apartheid not be tackled head-on with policies that seek to address socio-economic challenges, which is one of the biggest hindrances to growth? Is it the misconception that it would be unfavourable toward whites? Frankly, so what? How many poor white people are there in South Africa compared to poor black people? There is an over-sensitivity to criticism when it comes to initiatives like broad-based black economic empowerment and, of late, radical economic transformation. Why are some so averse to seeing black people lifted out of poverty and why are they given so much heft? Systems and networks which thrived under apartheid have morphed into a smokescreen of respectability but whose influence is manifested in subtle and not so subtle anti-development (read anti-black) rhetoric and sentiment. These powerful groups have fostered a narrative of a segment of the population under attack, that they are the victims and that we are another Zimbabwe waiting to happen. Well, we are still waiting. We need to look at the examples of China and Ethiopia (one party states) which have shown significant economic growth over the past decade. They do not pander or cower when threatened by entrenched capital and have set socio-economic courses that have seen major improvements in the lives of their people. However, they are often labelled as undemocratic countries as they don’t have what Western dogma insists are the essence of free and democratic spaces. There is an arrogance in South Africa to deny the effects of apartheid or in some cases that its existence hasn’t created some of the issues we sit with today. What has existed as a concept or theory is radical economic transformation. It has its roots in the Freedom Charter which says: “The People Shall Share in the Country’s Wealth.”. A romantic socialist notion it may be, but it is the antithesis of a society whose only goal is to consume more than their neighbour and who do not care that the people living next to them have nothing to eat or who don’t have a roof over their heads. Redress has to happen. Inequalities need and must be narrowed. The legacy of a brutal system (apartheid) needs a radical solution. The greater good for the majority of people, that is democracy in a nutshell, isn’t it? Radical economic transformation is not a construct to take anything away from anybody or to be a diversion for state capture, it is to uplift the poorest of the poor and hence, lift the economy out of its quagmire. Meokgo Matuba is secretary-general of the ANC Women’s League