The war against HIV-Aids will never be won if social and structural drivers are not addressed, South African National Aids Council CEO Dr Sandile Buthelezi said, speaking ahead of World Aids Day. He said that while major strides have been made in the fight against HIV, the war is far from over. Buthelezi said while the country can afford to pat itself on the back for great work achieved, the work must continue. “If we don’t address poverty, gender-based violence, transactional sex and lack of economic opportunities for young women among others as well as structural drivers, we aren’t going to win the war,” he said. He cites the prevention of mother to child transmission and the country’s massive HIV treatment programme as among the country’s many successes in the fight against HIV-Aids. Buthelezi said while a lot has been achieved, challenges remain. The prevention of new infections must be championed by all and it is imperative for people to take responsibility by knowing their status. Buthelezi said the high rate of infections among young women remains a concern while efforts to intensify programmes targeting key populations was at the top of the agenda. Nosipho Vidima, human rights and lobbying officer at Sex Worker Education and Advocacy Task Force says despite sex workers being classified as key populations, the issue of sex decriminalisation is handled with political gloves. “They are placing a lot of political attention on the sex decriminalisation issue instead of looking at the fact that it is a recommendation based on research and not anything else,” she said. Vidima said sex workers face numerous challenges while trying to access healthcare. “The biggest hurdle in accessing healthcare is that we have sex workers being raped by clients because of the criminalisation of sex workers. “We are never going to get to the 90- 90-90 goal because we are still going to have HIV transmission from the rapes.” Vidima says while they understand that sex workers can’t be on the agenda all the time they are simply asking for sex decriminalisation to be looked at from an evidence-based viewpoint. However, Dr Buthelezi says despite the legal status of sex work in the country “we believe that as a country we can do more to confront the harsh reality of sex work”. The foot soldiers fighting the stigma and changing attitudes HIV activist Saidy Brown who was diagnosed with HIV at 14 years old says people must change their attitudes towards HIV if more is to be achieved. Brown said she used to be so ashamed of owning her truth because of what she thought people would say. “We need to let go of this mentality that HIV is synonymous with promiscuity. We also get ignorant statements from people as educated as a nurse. “When I’m at the hospital I’m expecting to be in a safe haven and I get nurses, people who are trained to work with people like me who utter the most hurtful and ignorant words,” she said. She says in the past people used to be scared of HIV, however, in the information age there is no reason why people still choose ignorance over knowledge. Buthelezi has also expressed concern over dwindling Aids funding, saying while it is worrying that funding is decreasing, funders were being engaged to sustain funding until the war against HIV is won. “We are looking at strategic investments in the HIV programme with us targeting at least 25% of the funding going to prevention. “Funding is skewed towards treatment which is community-driven and also very expensive. That gives us a problem in terms of curbing the threat and preventing new infections,” he said. leratod@thenewage.co.za