A year after joining popular soap, Kgomotso Christopher tells us what excites her  IT HAS been a year since celebrated South African actress Kgomotso Christopher first dazzled Scandal! viewers with her cheeky, bitchy take on life as the vindictive and manipulative Yvonne Thebe-Langa, the ex-wife of Hector Thebe and mother of Naledi, who is not ashamed to use her beauty to get what she wants from men. The New Age recently spoke to the woman who plays the character of Yvonne so flawlessly on how she has been since moving from Isidingo to Scandal!, where she has been wreaking havoc on almost every man, married or single, on Scandal!. It has been more than a year since you joined Scandal! Please tell us about how you have been since you joined and what excites you about playing Yvonne. It’s been a thrilling experience to get the chance to build a new character on Scandal! and work with an incredible team who have not only created the foundations of the popular Yvonne but have allowed me to play with my craft and see where I can take the foundations. I have loved every single moment of playing Yvonne Langa. More importantly, I’ve been challenged and trusted and supported by the creative team to feel safe enough to go as far as I can to make magic on screen. It’s a very rare and an incredible blessing to find a creative team that allows one to play as an artist. I love playing Yvonne because she is a completely different character to what I have played previously. When you moved from Isidingo to Scandal, what influenced you decision? Was it money or did you feel you had achieved what you had wanted to achieve at Isidingo?  If it had been about the money, I would never have even signed up for the first year of Isidingo. I joined Isidingo because I felt it was one of South Africa’s top soapies and being part of the show was for the opportunity it would give me to work with top local actors and to receive work that would stretch me as an actress. While I was able to grow as an actor on the show, at some point the creative advantage of being on Isidingo stagnated, for me personally, meaning that I no longer felt challenged by the role I had and it became evident that this was not going to change.  What do you love most about being part of the Scandal! cast?  I love that we are all there to support each other and make each other shine on screen. My Scandal! cast members have quickly gone from being just colleagues to friends and family. This year has been a rather bad year for women in the TV and film industry, with the Harvey Weinstein controversy and locally it has been reported that sexual harassment is as big as it is in Hollywood, with Sisters Working in the Film and Television (Swift) survey saying more than 78% women are harassed sexually or have been discriminated against as a result of their gender. What are your views on sexual harassment and gender biases?  The biases and discrimination are reflective of a global society that has since time immemorial discriminated against women and their rights, be it in the personal or socio-cultural spaces or professional spaces women occupy. In the entertainment industry, the bias is also pronounced in the structure of our industry. Traditionally, the power positions of work roles in film and television are occupied by men. As much as change is happening, the structure and hierarchy remains that producers, directors are predominantly male. We also have the reality that our industry isn’t a profession where credentials and qualifications are key. It’s well known that it’s sadly in some cases about who you know. Some decision-makers who offer roles are aware of their power and abuse it. My view is that as an artist you have to know your rights and know when boundaries are being crossed. Know that as an actress shooting an intimate scene, you have the right to ask for a closed set.  What does the industry need to do to stop this kind of practice?  Society as a whole needs to have a more serious regard for women’s rights in the workplace. Sexual harassment shouldn’t be taken lightly. There should be serious consequences for perpetrators. The industry itself needs regulation in so many areas. But it would help to create a framework of rights under which all practitioners work. These would also outline and perhaps inform a sexual harassment policy. The work being started by Swift is a step in the right direction. Siyabonga Sithole siyabongas@thenewage.co.za