THE new Eskom board lacks the requisite experience in the energy sector, business, governance, capital raising and financial management, says Business Unity SA (Busa). Busa CEO Tanya Cohen yesterday expressed disappointment in Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown’s newly appointed Eskom board. Most of the board members were retained “who during their previous term enabled the crisis that Eskom finds itself in”. Brown announced the new board, which comprises interim chairperson Zethembe Khoza and interim members Pat Naidoo, Giovanni Leonardi, Pulane Molokwane, Simphiwe Dingaan, Banothile Makhubela, Sathiaseelan Gounden, plus two new members, Malegapuru Makgoba and Tshepo Mongalo. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) said it commended the two new appointments but was concerned about the retention of the seven members of the interim board, particularly the three from the previous board. The three longest-standing members of the board are chairperson Zethembe Khoza, Prof Pat Naidoo and Giovanni Leonardi. Outa said that these members were part of the board that approved former CEO Brian Molefe’s R30m pension payout and subsequent reappointment. Furthermore, all seven of the retained board members approved Eskom’s recent application for a 20% tariff hike to Nersa, it said. Busa said that while business welcomed the addition of Makgoba and Mongalo to the board based on their academic standing, the overall combination of the board is a further blow to Eskom’s sustainability. Busa expressed concern with the lack of stability in the energy sector considering the Eskom board, issues around the central energy fund portfolio including Petro SA and the Strategic Fuel Fund and the lack of consultation on the Integrated Resource Plan. The business lobby group reiterated that the eradication of wasteful and fruitless expenditure and curtailing losses of state-owned enterprises and particularly Eskom, requires urgent support and implementation given the impact that the Eskom finances have on the national fiscus. Outa said that what Eskom needs is a robust board that will hold the operational leadership to account for efficiency improvements and that will require extreme cost cutting to turn around this monolithic and extremely sick organisation. The responsibility for appointing the board rests with Brown who must still fill the four vacancies on the board. She has indicated she will make more appointments in July. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said in his medium-term budget statement that Eskom had become a significant risk to the entire economy but it would not be allowed to fail. Eskom acting chairman Sethembe Khoza told the inquiry into state capture being conducted by Parliament’s public enterprises committee that the high turnover of chairpersons and CEOs was a problem. There have been six CEOs since May 2014. THELMA NGOMA thelman@thenewage.co.za