DA has announced that they will lay charges of perjury against President Jacob Zuma. This comes after the North Gauteng High Court gave two stinging rulings against President Zuma yesterday. Maimane said they believe Zuma has a case to answer on why he gave false evidence to the court under oath and then claimed a typing error. “We will today be handing over an affidavit to the police and laying criminal charges of perjury against President Jacob Zuma later today for his sinister attempt to mislead the courts, abuse judicial process, and ultimately undermine the law and the constitution of the republic.” He said they agree with the court that President Zuma should pay for the costs of the case personally and that they will make sure he does so as ordered. “We estimate the costs to be at R6 million.” “It is our view that the President must personally pay back this money, he must do so within the next 30 days, and he must table his proof of payment in Parliament by no later than 31 January 2018.” Maimane said they will also impeach President Zuma once court proceeding brought to the Constitutional Court calling for his removal are finalised. However, they expect the incoming president of the ANC to recall Zuma before then. “If the next ANC President fails to do so, we will go for the constitutional court application brought by DA, EFF, COPE and UDM which seeks to establish the procedures to be followed in the impeachment proceedings against any President. “The constitutional court has the opportunity to provide guidelines for clear and proper procedures on impeachment proceedings,” he said. According to Maimane, South Africans should be concerned that this is the first instance since the dawn of democracy in 1994 that a sitting President has been required to personally pay – out of his/her own pocket for litigation costs. “Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela was not able to make findings that the President violated the Executive Ethics Code. Yesterday’s court ruling has shown that he did. “The Public Protector was unable to come to a conclusive finding as to whether there was a definitive breach of the Code by the President. This must form part of the terms of reference of the commission of inquiry to be set up by 12 January 2018.” The DA leader added that a breach of the Executive Ethics Code and Act is a serious offence. If the President has breached such, this must be established and finalised by the commission of inquiry. “We expect the president to comply with the court’s ruling that he sets up a commission of inquiry within 30 days as ordered by the court. “If the President fails to establish the commission within 30 days, the DA will launch an application in the High Court in terms of the Uniform Rules of Court (URC) to force compliance with the rulings – regardless of any appeal by President Zuma and his litigious legal team.” -TNA Reporter  