THE South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) has suggested face to face counselling for pupils receiving their exam results to minimise suicides. This comes after a Grade 11 pupil from Strauss Secondary School in Ekangala committed suicide after receiving his year-end report card last Wednesday. Sadag operations manager Cassey Chambers urged parents to be aware of signs of suicide and act as soon as possible by seeking intervention. “What we should do is offer them support. It’s important to have them go in and get their results and have people talk to them. It would make a huge difference,” she said. She said it was important for teachers to speak to the parents of pupils who did not perform well to show them that it was not the end of the world. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi visited the family of the pupil on Friday and has assigned a team to work with them and give them necessary counselling and support. “It is alleged that the pupil’s mother found him hanging in the garage at his home. Subsequently, Emergency Medical Services were called to the scene and the learner was transported to Dark City Local Clinic, where he was declared dead on arrival,” department spokesperson Steve Mabona said. The department urged parents and communities to closely monitor the behaviour of pupils and seek intervention timeously. “It is regrettable that such an incident occurred, as the department is working jointly with NGOs such as ChildLine South Africa. Suicide is not an option since there is available intervention and support for learners,” Mabona said. The Congress of South African Students (Cosas) made a call to stop publishing matric results in newspaper, saying it violated the right to privacy. “We have a right to privacy and the publication of the matric results is one of the reasons why other pupils have committed suicide. Knowing that the whole country is going to see your results before you even see them yourself is a problem and reduces your self confidence,” Cosas representative Penuel Maduna said. Maduna said receiving results at school was better, as teachers were able to provide counselling. -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE|shonisanit@thenewage.co.za