A fractured Free State ANC will attend the party’s elective conference in the face of a bitter feud between chairperson Ace Magashule and his former deputy Thabo Manyoni unresolved. The battle continued in the Free State High Court yesterday to nullify the conference at which the provincial executive of the party was elected. Disgruntled ANC members took the party to court claiming it had not re-run branch general meetings (BGMs) in 29 branches in the province before it proceeded with the provincial conference that ended on Tuesday. Magashule was re-elected chairperson at the disputed conference. He had been ANC provincial chairperson since 1992. His top five also included Paseka Nompondo as deputy, William Bulwane as secretary, Mamiki Qabathe as deputy secretary and Mosebenzi Zwane as the treasurer. Through their legal representative, Dali Mpofu, the disgruntled members argued that the provincial conference was not held appropriately. The court proceedings that began at 10 am were adjourned twice and only started after 2 pm to give the defence time to hand to the court outstanding documents that included proof that the BGMs took place. Mpofu for the applicants earlier began his argument in front of the full bench and argued that the ANC was in contempt of court and acted illegally because it did not adhere to an earlier court order. Legal counsel for the respondents led by William Mokhare said there was nothing irregular about the 29 branches except for one branch in Virginia were the BGM did not take place as scheduled. Mokhare also justified why the Free State delegates had to attend the elective conference at Nasrec, Johannesburg starting tomorrow. He said the 70% threshold was sufficient to let the conference to go ahead. “The BGMs were done accordingly, therefore, there is no reason that the court can not allow the delegates cannot go to the national conference. Everything was above board heading to the provincial conference, there is no substantial reason to prevent the delegates from going to the national conference,” Mokhare said. Meanwhile, this morning the North West High Court in Mahikeng is expected to rule on the matter of some disputed branches in the Bojanala region in the province. The court could either nullify the disputed branches or uphold them. michaelt@thenewage.co.za