NEWLY-ELECTED ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa was confronted with his first crisis yesterday after his choice for the position of secretary-general, Senzo Mchunu, plunged the party’s 54th national elective conference into crisis. Supporters of Mchunu, who lost out to Ace Magashule by 24 votes for the position, triggered the crisis over 68 “missing” votes. At the time of going to press, the ANC’s steering committee responsible for overseeing the conference, was still locked in a marathon meeting to resolve the dispute, which threatens to collapse the conference. Sources have warned that the conference was on the verge of collapse if the issue was not resolved. Yesterday’s row occurred hardly a day after the election of the ANC’s new leadership. Mchunu’s supporters were aggrieved that some 68 votes were not factored into the vote count for the position of secretary-general. Senior ANC delegates told The New Age yesterday that pro-Dlamini Zuma factions were prepared to push for a total vote recount for the party’s entire top six officials amid threats from Mchunu’s camp to lodge a court application in a bid to annul the outcome of the secretary-general vote. Late yesterday sources said that the ANC 54th national elective conference was on the precipice of “collapse”. “He wanted a vote recount and if it’s not taking place, then he’s taking the matter to court. It’s a serious problem because if you begin to touch one thing, then we must have a recount for all the positions,” a source said. “The NDZ camp has said that it accepts the outcome of the election, but if you touch some areas, then it can’t be an isolated matter.” This after a meeting of the ANC’s steering committee was called to probe the alleged missing votes. A feedback report purportedly from Jackson Mthembu, a key Ramaphosa aide, read: “On the 68 votes that were not included in the report of the electoral commission at plenary will change the numbers of comrade Senzo (SG) drastically and positively.” Another source accused Mchunu of factional behaviour. “They will not derail this conference. We accepted the results, if they want to play dirty, we are ready for that. When she lost in KwaZulu-Natal, he took us to court, cutting our branches and we shook it off. He doesn’t get tired.” The source also confirmed that if Mchunu followed through with his threat of court action, then Dlamini Zuma loyalist were prepared to call for a recount for all positions, including the party’s presidency. “It’s fine. If they take us to court, then the whole conference must be taken to court because we ourselves are suspicious of the outcome of the elections.” Voting for additional members of the ANC national executive committee was delayed because of the dispute and only got under way in the evening. An announcement is expected today. North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo said yesterday he was prepared to shoot down any attempt to have Magashule removed as secretarygeneral. “The mandate is clear. If it comes to plenary the North West will say we don’t who know voted who and how because this is a secret ballot. You can’t therefore target one position,” Mahumapelo said. “So our position is very clear: if they call for recounting we are going to call for a rerun of the entire election for all top six positions.” The conference has been dogged by numerous delays and disputes since it started on Saturday. This has led to the conference programme running way beyond schedule. Organisers now face a race against time to complete its programme ahead of today’s closure. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN AND BONOLO SELEBANO