According to Gun Owners of South Africa (Gosa), the number of unlicensed firearms in the hands of individuals in the country is more than double the number licensed ones, estimated at 3 million. The organisation said that about 12 million firearms are in the hands of illegal owners particularly because most people cannot financially afford to comply with the requirements of the Firearms Control Act. “There is no record or register of illicitly circulating firearms or can be compiled. It must be noted that not all people who illegally own firearms intend to use them for criminal purposes, many people, especially living in dangerous areas in townships and rural areas, cannot financially afford to comply with the requirements of the Firearms Control Act. “Out of sheer desperation they resort to illegally owning unlicensed firearms in order to protect themselves and their families from violent criminals,” the organisation’s Gideon Joubert said. He said they would rather risk being arrested and prosecuted for unlawful possession than to be left completely defenceless. Joubert said there had been several firearm amnesties in South Africa since 1994, the most recent being in 2010. About 32000 firearms were handed in during the amnesty but a very large number of them were legally owned under the old Arms and Ammunition Act 75 of 1969, which was replaced by the FCA of 2000 when it became law in 2004. Recent crime statistics in October stated that 51 people were murdered every day, 343 more people than in the previous year, attempted murder cases were up by 78 while 8429 more robberies with aggravating circumstances were committed. The statistics further showed that since 2012, South Africa has seen a steady rise in violent crime, with murder increasing a staggering 22%, from a low of 15554 murders in 2011-12 to 19016 in 2016-17. Gun Free South Africa estimates that between 35% and 40% of murders in 2016-17 were committed with a gun, amounting to 18 to 21 gun-related murders a day. “Although the police must be commended for recovering an additional 1362 illegal firearms and rounds of ammunition in 2016-17, Gun Free South Africa is concerned that this 9% improvement is due to the greater availability of guns, instead of improvements in policing,” Gun Free South Africa director Adele Kirsten said. Kirsten said the steady increase in violent crime dating from 2012 coincided with a breakdown in South Africa’s firearms control management system. “This breakdown includes fraud and corruption in the gun licensing process, which means that people who are not fit for gun ownership are fraudulently granted gun licences by police officials. “Loss and theft of legal guns which leak into the illegal pool, this is best demonstrated by the sentencing to 18 years of Christiaan Prinsloo, a senior police officer, for selling 2400 confiscated and surrendered guns ‘destroyed’ by police to Western Cape gangsters; thus far 1066 murders in that province have been forensically linked to these guns,” Kirsten said. Another advocacy group, Gun Owners Association of South Africa also said it was difficult to know the exact number of illegal firearms. “It is anybody’s guess as to how many illegal guns there are in the country. “Some people have tried to guess that number, I think it is extremely difficult because to do that, one has to look at what is the source of the illicit market. “Many people find that their firearms are being stolen or robbed by firearms dealers or from legitimate gun owners,” advocate John Welch, chairperson Gun Owners Association of South Africa, said. “There are many firearms that go missing from the state, meaning from SAPS or the military and so forth. “Unfortunately many firearms are still illegally imported or smuggled into the country and that is such a sad state of affairs,” Welch said. “As the association, we believe that if a competency certificate is done properly, there should not be any reason that a person should not own a firearm for the legitimate reasons. “Our concern is with those people who illegally own a firearms, many of them believe that they will not go through the process of getting a licence and rather buy one from a black market,” Welch said. Illegal gun owne Sakhile Mzobe said he carried a gun due to escalating violent crime rate in the country. “I have witnessed and been a victim of violent crime many times over the years with physical and psychological scars to show and live with for life. “This year alone. I have helped two neighbours separate street muggings,” Mzobe said. NTOMBI NKOSI ntombin@thenewage.co.za