GROWING up in a township where opportunities are few and far between is frustrating and often a dream killer. However, occasionally an individual comes along and refuses to be cowered by their circumstances. And that is exactly the back story to the extraordinary Banyana Banyana vice-captain, Refiloe “Fifi” Jane. With women’s football an afterthought to all intents and purposes in this country, Jane did not see that as a hindrance to follow her dream. The 25 year old said she was inspired by her brother to pursue football as a career when she was a youngster. “Every morning when my brothers went to train I would wake up with them. I would watch them training and that’s how I fell in love with the game from the age of six,” Jane said. She took her passion for football to another level when she joined Mamelodi Sundowns’ women’s team in 2012. She played with them for three seasons and went on to join VUT ladies. The midfielder then returned to Sundowns where she spent one season before joining Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) ladies. Due to her hard work, discipline and commitment, Jane was called up to the Banyana Banyana team that participated in the 2016 Rio Olympic Games in Brazil. Banyana were knocked out of the tournament in the group stages after suffering two consecutive defeats at the hands of Sweden and China. However, Jane took the positives out of that international tournament and said it changed how she looks at football. “It was a once in a lifetime, eye-opening experience and I was the last inclusion in the team preparing for the Olympics. When I joined Banyana they were about to go to the Olympics and It was an amazing experience for me. “I was now playing on the international stage for the first team. And playing all the games without being substituted was really good for me and it changed the way I look at football.” Banyana coach Desiree Ellis bestowed Jane with the responsibility to captain the team in the Cosafa Women’s Championship this year in Zimbabwe where they were crowned champions. Jane grabbed the opportunity with both hands and led the team to glory. “It was a humbling experience to captain the country and in the tournament, it was all local based players. Most of the players in the team had never been in a Cosafa tournament before and only three in the team had won Cosafa medals before. “For us to go to Cosafa was an awesome experience because we all wanted the same thing, so the job wasn’t that difficult.” –NTSAKO MASHABA|ntsakom@thenewage.co.za