A group of disgruntled ANC stalwarts and veterans who are signatories to the For the Sake of our Future document have dug in their heels on their proposal that a national consultative conference be de-linked from the ANC s scheduled policy conference.Group spokesperson Wally Serote said despite the veterans and the ANC s top six national executive committee members being on opposite ends of the pole on the matter, the veterans resolved to remain resolute on their rejection that the ANC s national consultative conference be incorporated into the party s policy conference. The only concession that must there is on the side of the ANC NEC to realise that the issue of de-linking is very important because we are not only addressing the relationship between the national consultative conference and the national policy conference but we are discussing the future of the ANC and its renewal, Serote said.He said the stalwarts would continue to raise their proposal until they make headway on the matter. We are committed to negotiating until we come to an agreement. That is the concession we are looking for. Serote s comments come against the background of the veterans questioning the ANC s commitment to their proposal that the national consultative conference be given a separate status to the party s policy conference.The stalwarts expressed their disappointment with the ANC that their proposal did not feature in the discussions that took place in a recent ANC lekgotla.It is for this that Serote said the veterans would as a matter of urgency, arrange a meeting to thrash out their concerns with the ANC top six party leaders after President Jacob Zuma delivers his state of the nation address. The matter is still on the agenda for both of us. After Sona, we ll be focusing on that. As soon as that happens we ll have to sit down and talk, both the stalwarts and the NEC. We want to express hope that one of the top skills of the ANC and the veterans and of the NEC is the ability to negotiate and it really puts us to the test. On our side we are committed to negotiating and showing that its extremely important that national consultative conference is de-linked from the policy conference. However, ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte told The New Age last week the ANC NEC s position on the matter was for the party to dedicate the first two days of its scheduled policy conference to the consultative conference. We ve agree to have consultative conference two days before our policy conference. That was decision of our national executive committee. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za