The North West ANCYL wants investigations launched into the affairs of those leading the North West Business Forum (NWBF).This came after the league marched in Mahikeng recently calling on the provincial government to implement programmes put forward by the fifth administration led by Premier Supra Mahumapelo.ANCYL provincial secretary Sipho Dial said: We are here to march against corrupt rich people who call themselves North West Business Forum. We urge the provincial government to launch forensic investigations against those members. We also want to put it on record that we have faith on the fifth administration under the leadership of Premier Mahumapelo. The administration took a resolution and determined to redistribute the economy through a strategic approach called villages, townships and small dorpies (VTSD) initiative. We also support the notion to fight corruption because it undermines the law. The misfired information and allegations for regime change made by rich individuals through forum members who monopolise tenders all the time is an insult to the people. However, forum secretary, Sello Mogodiri said Premier Supra Mahumapelo has not denied that he is corrupt. Mahumapelo launched a lawsuit against us in order to silence us. We encourage him to continue with the lawsuit because we will get the opportunity to go with him to a court of law. We will present our case and evidence in court and prove that Mahumapelo is corrupt. He is not fit to govern the province and has breached his oath of office. We are disappointed that the response of the government is to organise unemployed youth who are intoxicated and heavily armed to disrupt our peaceful demonstration which was constitutional and lawful, he said.Mogodiri alleged that Mahumapelo removed government-owned game animals and donated them to his cronies.He further said they regard that as an abuse of power and a crime against humanity. We did not continue with our march because we wanted to avoid bloodshed. However, we will regroup and gather at Montshioa Stadium from Wednesday. Our people will join us and ensure that Mahumapelo resigns. We will petition him and engage with those who put him in power. The ANC in the province is weaker than Mahumapelo and we accept that. The ruling party has put corruption on top of its list and continues to fight it. Corruption derails service delivery and we will continue to fight against it. The ANC in Bokone Bophirima has declined with 15% during the local government elections because of corruption, he said.Dial said they were demanding the North West provincial government intensify economic growth, accelerate radical socio-economic transformation, land reform and land redistribution, funding of higher education, the fight against crime and corruption as well as capacity building.He said they also called on decisive legislature to focus on immediate challenges of structuring economy through the VTSD. We demand an oversight on the implementation of state-owned North West Development Corporation companies. We also want acceleration on transformation and support for SMMEs to boost the economy of the province. The legislature must ensure the government drives local procurement through the VTSD. We also want to see non-compliance and consequence management being implemented. The provincial government must also make sure the mining sector supports SMMEs. Public servants must not do business with the government because that kills emerging businesses, specifically black-owned companies, Dial said.The provincial legislature s chair of chairs, Dr Itumeleng Mosala, said they accepted the memorandum and would respond to it. He said they would engage the youth league in addressing their views. We are accepting this memorandum on behalf of the provincial legislature speaker, Susan Dantjie. What we understand is that the premier is appointed by the president as mandated by the party that put him to the legislature. So, nobody has the authority to remove the premier of any province. As the Bokone Bophirima provincial legislature, we have not realised any wrongdoings from Mahumapelo. We have not come across any wrongdoing on accountability or oversight role we have performed on the fifth administration that warrants him to be deposed, he said.South African Student Congress Organisation (Sasco) regional secretary in Ngaka Modiri Molema, Lesego Racoco said: We are gathered here as young people because our provincial ANC leadership is under siege. Those who call themselves tenderpreneurs see the government coffers as their milk cow. North West Business Forum should refrain from recalling for the resignation of the premier. Sanco regional chairperson in Ngaka Modiri Molema district, Khumalo Molefe said: We were not supposed to be here today. However, our hard-earned democracy and revolution is under attack. We have voted for the ANC in this province unconditionally. We are in the alliance with the ANC, so when you attack the ruling party, you attack us. Those who say the premier must be recalled, they indirectly declare a motion of no confidence in the ANC. We will inevitably rise to the defence of the Constitution and democracy. The ANC-led government is in charge and people need to accept that. Those who want to destroy the ANC must start with us, Molefe said.The regional task team (RTT) in Ngaka Modiri Molema district convenor, Hendrick Botha, said they would not allow anarchy in the province.He said those who wanted to overthrow the government undermined the voters who voted the ANC into power. We took the resolution as RTT to support this march. We cannot allow charlatans and wolves to overthrow the government. Those people call themselves members of the ANC are not on our records, Botha said.OBAKENG MAJEobakengm@thenewage.co.za