Following the resolution of the political impasse in The Gambia, a great deal of attention has focused on the role played by the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas). The regional body brought a swift end to the potentially explosive crisis sparked by the refusal of former president Yahya Jammeh to hand over to the newly elected Adama Barrow.Jammeh s flight into exile was preceded by weeks of diplomacy to persuade him to hand over power peacefully. When this failed regional military assets were mobilised to install Barrow forcibly and he is now officially in the presidential seat. This resounding success, unrivalled by any African regional organisation, has taken decades to craft.The fractious 1960sBy the close of the early 1960s most countries in the West African sub-region had gained political freedom from colonial powers. They adopted a variety of political systems The region developed quite a reputation for military coups.Initial attempts to form Ecowas floundered in the early 1960s. This was due to the differences between Ghana s Kwame Nkrumah and Nigeria s Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, on the kind of integration necessary for the states in the region.The fall of these two personalities from power in 1966 did not end the political rivalries in the region. Attempts at integration were further delayed by the civil war in Nigeria from 1967 to 1970, as well as the struggle over the supremacy of the West African region between Nigeria and C te d Ivoire along Anglo-Francophone lines.Eventually two influential military leaders generals Yakubu Gowon of Nigeria and Gnassingbe Eyadema of Togo formed the nucleus of Ecowas in the 1970s. They succeeded in bringing on board the other military leaders of Dahomey (now Benin), Ghana and Niger among others.This explains the dominant role of the military in the life of the organisation. Ecowas was eventually formed on May 28, 1975, in Nigeria as a regional economic grouping of 15 states. Membership went up to 16 when Cape Verde joined in 1976. But it declined again to 15 when Mauritania withdrew in December 2000.The Ecowas Treaty of 1975 envisaged the group as an economic community with the aim of promoting cooperation and economic development. The grouping saw its role as raising the living standards of people in the region and fostering closer relations among its members and contributing to the progress and development of the continent.How did the economic bloc blossom into a dominant sub-regional peace and security organisation in Africa?The need for a security organisationWhen Ecowas was formed only Nigeria had experienced a civil war. But there was an increase in the number of violent conflicts after the late 1980s. Several factors contributed to the intractability of violent conflicts in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Mali, Niger and C te d Ivoire. These included the effects of the Cold War, economic malaise, human rights abuses and political rivalries. The conflicts had deleterious implications for the peace and security of the region.The effect of the civil wars was that some states became places for recruiting disenchanted unemployed youths into various armed banditry groups who committed heinous war related crimes. Ecowas was formed at a time when power vacillated between civilian and military rulers in the region. The period was characterised by governments accusing one another of supporting dissidents.Against this backdrop, the treaty was revised in 1993. The Revised Treaty allowed the promulgation of protocols to regulate the peace and security architecture of member states.The peace and security architecture of EcowasThe first protocol promulgated was a non-aggression pact signed on April 28, 1978 in Lagos, Nigeria. The region s leaders present noted that the community cannot attain its objective save in an atmosphere of peace and harmonious understanding among Community members.This marked the beginning of future steps by member states to address security matters. But the protocol proved inadequate against either external attacks or intrastate conflicts. This led to the mutual assistance in defence protocol being passed.This was signed in May 1981 despite fervent opposition from Mali, Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde. It did not create a standing army but provisions were made for joint action in the event of any security threat to a member state through a voluntary contribution of troops.But the reliance on troop contributions from member states was a major challenge. The 1999 protocol put in place comprehensive structures and processes that have to be followed in the event of conflict breaking out.The mechanism makes provision for diplomatic and military interventions.Abdul-Jalilu Ateku is a PhD candidate in international relations at the University of Nottingham. This article first appeared on theconversation.com