National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete yesterday justified President Jacob Zuma s request to deploy 441 South African National Defence Force (SANDF) soldiers to beef up security at the opening of Parliament.Speaking ahead of Zuma s state of the nation address last night, Mbete said that while the soldiers were deployed as a precautionary measure, their presence was needed to tighten security as Parliament became the hive of political activity throughout the day. Remember, there are thousands of South Africans who have applied for permission to march so we will not even be aware of where things are happening, so should the police need support these soldiers will be ready to give necessary support. Now I want to say something because we were asked a question: do we really think it s necessary ? Now, some years ago there were so many South Africans outside the precincts of Parliament. At some point, violence actually did break out. So it s not child s play, we do expect thousands of people who have applied and have been given permission, some will be at the Grand Parade and others at other corners so we must be ready. Mbete s comments come against the background of a furore that erupted among opposition political parties questioning why the speaker saw the necessity for Zuma to have his request granted. It was for this reason that Mbete said Zuma followed the necessary protocols to have the request granted. What we clarified yesterday is that when the president deploys soldiers anywhere, whether in the townships or in any other country, they always say he has the obligation to inform Parliament. There are laws that he writes to presiding officers, both the speaker of the National Assembly and the chairperson of the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). He did the same this year as he normally does. We will see the soldiers that applied for ceremonial activities of the day&#8230; so they are simply allowed to be ready on standby in case they are needed to support the police and we must understand that in fact even then the process will only start when the police indicate their capacity is inadequate to cope with the (necessary) management. Mbete, making reference to Wednesday s march by civil society organisation Save SA, said that Zuma s detractors would be better off providing solutions to the country s challenges of poverty and inequality It s not unexpected in particular, (from) the Save SA campaign. Rather than being an armchair critic, it s better for South Africans to come on board on what role they can play, how we can boost the economy, how we can ensure that we create opportunities for the previously disadvantaged and marginalised of our society, she said. Mbete, switching to the ANC s succession debate, said that she believed the time was right for a woman to take over the reins of the party. South Africa has been ready for a woman president for decades and yes, I believe that it is correct for South Africa that a woman must be given the opportunity to serve South Africa at that level. bonolos@thenewage.co.za