&nbsp;South African Airways will suspend flights between Johannesburg and the Nigerian capital Abuja, next month due to upgrade work on the runway at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in the capital. The suspension of the weekly nonstop flights between Johannesburg and Abuja is effective from March 6, spokesperson Tlali Tlali said yesterday. The Nigerian airport authorities said the airport would be closed for six weeks, effective from March 8. Other international airlines are, like SAA, refusing to fly to an alternative hub when the only airport serving Nigeria s capital shuts down, forcing travellers to make lengthy detours at extra cost. The alternative hub is Kaduna, which is at least 170km away. Nigeria s aviation ministry has said the planned six weeks of resurfacing work were needed because the runway, which was built in 1982 with a 20-year life span, was dilapidated and unsafe . There have been several reports that potholes have damaged aircraft, prompting one international carrier to cancel its flights on the route. But Lufthansa, Air France and South African Airways have all said they will not reroute their flights to Abuja from Frankfurt, Paris and Johannesburg to Kaduna. British Airways and Turkish Airlines have not made a decision but look likely to follow suit, as both have suspended ticket sales for Abuja flights during the closure. Malte Liewerscheidt, senior Africa analyst with the Verisk Maplecroft global risk consultancy, said the closure of the capital s airport was highly symbolic . Nigeria is in recession and desperate to turn around sky-high inflation and a weak currency that have deterred overseas investors. You have a government that doesn t even keep the airport to its capital open. What does that say? Liewerscheidt said. This raises questions for investors about the assets of the Nigerian government, he said. Tlali said SAA customers would be accommodated on flights to and from Lagos. Affected SAA customers who already hold tickets and those planning to travel to Nigeria over this time will be re-accommodated on SA060 Johannesburg to Lagos and SA061 Lagos to Johannesburg. No figures are available about how much money Abuja stands to lose by having its airport out of action for at least six weeks but the president of the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Tony Ejinkeonye, said everyone associated with the facility would be highly affected . Airlines are the only viable option for relatively speedy travel around Nigeria, as road infrastructure is lacking and security questionable with AFP