UNRULY fans may have landed National First Division side AmaZulu in trouble with the PSL following their treatment of a match official during the KZN derby on Sunday. This incident, the second of its nature in the country in two weeks, took place when Usuthu were playing away at Thanda Royal Zulu at Mhlathuze Sports Complex in Richards Bay.Two weeks ago, Orlando Pirates fans violently stormed the ground, halting the match for a lengthy period, with Pirates trailing Mamelodi Sundowns 6-0 in Pretoria. The Amazulu fans, meanwhile, got hot under the collar after the linesman correctly ruled Siyabonga Nomvethe s headed goal offside. At the time, AmaZulu were trailing 2-1 after substitute Mhlengi Cele s second half brace.Seeing the fans charging towards him after forcing their way through an open gate, the linesman ran towards the centre of the pitch, forcing referee Bafana Mosia to halt the match for about five minutes. After consultation with the match commissioner and police intervention, play resumed. AmaZulu promptly capitalised on their numerical advantage following the sending off of defender Velile Zitha, by piling pressure on the home side. They were eventually rewarded when the evergreen Nomvethe benefitted from Mabhuti Khenyeza s cross to level the score at 2-2.Thapelo Nyongo had earlier reduced the deficit with a well taken free kick. Despite earning a crucial point, the AmaZulu management should be worried about facing the wrath of the PSL. Some AmaZulu fans threw objects at a referee who had shown Khenyeza a red card in the other KZN derby against Royal Eagles in KwaMashu in December.For Thanda, the draw means they are still comfortably at the top, leading the 16 team division with 40 points after 18 games. Usuthu occupy eighth spot with 25 points. In the Cape derby, Darren Smith s strike five minutes from time earned Santos just their second win of the season with a narrow 1-0 victory over Cape rivals Milano, leapfrogging Magesi FC who went down 1-0 to University of Pretoria. In Durban, former Polokwane City, Golden Arrows and Usuthu striker Siphesihle Nzimande s late strike sank Jomo Cosmos, who went down 1-0 to Real Kings.news@thenewage.co.za-Linda Ximba