Throughout history, people have been notably fixated on the anus for various reasons.Sigmund Freud s sex obsessed psychoanalytic theory even has an anal stage in which the anus as an erogenous zone is the major driving force of a developing human s psychosexual development.For worse, religious texts are interpreted to condemn sodomy as an abominable act that is highly punishable. Whatever the view, the anus is an erogenous zone and a centre of sexual pleasure. A high concentration of nerve endings in the anus is responsible for its pleasure giving properties. So, why all the fear and stigma?Yes, it is known that anal intercourse is a practice of homosexual people but where does the notion that it is exclusively a gay sexual activity come from?According to a 2010 survey by the US National Survey on Sexual Health and Behaviour (NSSHB), more than 40% of men aged 25 to 59 reported having engaged in some kind of anal sex at some point in their life. About 40% of women aged 20 to 49 reported having had anal sex. Those are some pretty high figures to have it classified as an exclusively gay sexual practice.Further to these statistics, there is also the scenario of men who have sex with men (MSM).Let s be clear, MSM and gay refer to different things behaviours and social identities. MSM refers to sexual activities between men, whereas gay can include those activities but is seen as a cultural identity.Homosexuality refers to sexual/ romantic attraction between members of the same sex.According to clinical sexologist Dr Eve, anal sex is quite a thing. I hear anal confessions regularly. What s the big deal I say? People are curious, let them explore each other and their own orifices happily, she says. The anus is filled with nerve endings so it s sensitive to the touch. Of course the male prostate lives there and it adores being stimulated. It is simply a myth that anal sex is only for gay men, according to retired gynaecologist Dr Michael Bates. Gay men laugh, hold hands, kiss and engage in oral sex. Are laughing, hand holding, kissing and oral limited to gay people? Of course not. The same goes for anal sex. Sexual orientation has nothing to do with what you do. It s all about who you prefer to do it with, he says.Remember, there are health considerations, unprotected anal penetration has the highest risk of HIV due to tearing. Wear a condom and always use anal lube. Do not use force and pleasure for both partners.So, you like anal sex? Whether you are the receptive or penetrative partner, the anal area is not limited to exploration by gay men. Religious beliefs complicate this argument somewhat, but if you are guided by those beliefs you are fully entitled to choose to engage or abstain.Just make sure you don t judge others. On the note of sexuality, you may like anal sex because you re gay or you may like it for a different reason. Just consider for a moment being gay is not a link to inferiority or degeneracy.Whether you re gay, lesbian, straight, bisexual, transgender or anywhere on the spectrum of fluid sexuality and gender identity, your main concern should be health and pleasure. If that s part of your experience of sex, then n you re doing it right. Go forth and explore!-JAMIL KHAN