YESTERDAY marked 39 years since the death of Pan Africanist Congress founder member and president Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe and to commemorate the anniversary, scores of people marched to Fort Hare university demanding the institution be named after him. The PAC in the Eastern Cape is marching to Fort Hare to demand to instruct that the institution be rightfully renamed after Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe because it is the right thing to do. It s not only about changing the name but it s about changing the education system, Pan Africanist Congress (PAC), spokesperson Kenneth Mokgatlhe yesterday said. Mokgatlhe yesterday said Sobukwe played a critical role when he was a student at Fort Hare university in the 40s. He was very young when he addressed his fellow students and later became the university s SRC president. We are not disturbing educational activities but we want the university to prioritise the matter. We have been lobbying other church and student groupings who are also supporting our point, he said. Sobukwe has been credited for playing a prominent role in the fight against apartheid regime, starting when he was a student at Fort Hare and even after he had established the PAC. In March 1960, he led a march against the pass laws which compelled black people pass books at all times. He said the PAC had been asking the institution about the issue for a number of years. This is not the first initiative, we have been speaking with them as early as 1995. Universities at the time were being led by white people so we could not go any further with it, he said. Mokgatlhe said their call to rename Fort Hare was supported by other groupings and political parties. We also want to thank the IFP, ACDP and UDM for showing a great solidarity in commemorating this great martyr. We want to see more organisations coming forward and commemorating Robert Sobukwe because we believe that Sobukwe was a modern thinker, a philosopher who was the embodiment of Africanism, he said. The university celebrated its centenary in 2016 and has produced a number of political elite, including South Africa s first democratically elected president Nelson Mandela, IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe and Oliver Tambo. Attempts to get comment from Fort Hare failed. 701233 TNA REPORTER