Parliament s ad hoc committee probing the fitness of the SABC board is in a race against time to finalise its interim report to the National Assembly by next week. This comes after the resumption of the ad hoc committee s false start yesterday.Committee chairperson Vincent Smith, minutes into the meeting, tabled a motion that the meeting be adjourned tentatively to next Tuesday. It was argued that the responses to its interim report were minuscule and that the committee needed more time to apply its mind on some submissions received and those slated to be received.He said that all submissions had to be made by no later than Thursday 5pm, lest they threw a spanner in the works of the committee s finalisation of the report. The research team will do what they need to do, we ll try to give all members all the documents by the end of business on Monday so that on Tuesday we get down to the real nitty-gritty, so that members are not rushed in terms of their recommendations. On the 24th, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to agree on our recommendations because we don t have leeway before the 24th. Members must agree to work until whatever time if necessary, Smith said. Smith s comments come against the background of the committee working feverishly to conclude its work by February 22, before submitting its report to the National Assembly.Adding to the mix was the leaking of a working document to the media where the public broadcaster s board was slammed for improper conduct in its handling of SABC affairs. DA MP Mike Waters, while offering an argument that included a concurrence with the motion to adjourn the meeting because it was premature , said the committee should guard against being pressed for time, however. I think we are going to be under more pressure than we think. We could start dealing with the submissions received last week and the week before to save time. The recommendations are going to take a lot longer than what we anticipate. I think we need to set aside ample time for the recommendations. IFP MP Narend Singh also agreed that the committee meeting should resume once all responses to the report had been collated and examined. I don t think we should meet for the sake of meeting.Let s meet with all the facts, with the research team having gone through what A says and what B says and provide evidence that what A says to us was under oath during the hearing, he said-Bonolo Selebano|bonolos@thenewage.so.za