For years, a subsistence farmer s worst nightmare was the theft of his cows, drought or diseases.But lately, just as in the wild west movies, farmers now fear rustlers who even take cattle at gunpoint.A victim of stock theft is Jerry Mogane, who lost his job at a parastatal and started eking out a living through subsistence farming in livestock in Tubatse, Burgersfort more than 25 years ago. For years, the only threat to my herd was drought and sometimes diseases as well. But these days I am only left with seven, my whole herd of more than 50 was taken by thieves just before Christmas, Mogane, 56, says.Mogane is not the only farmer to suffer at the hands of robbers and thieves.All subsistence cattle owners in the province who rely on communal grazing fields and open water resources, have suffered at the hands of cattle rustlers.Sometimes, the thieves break into kraals situated next to residential houses during the nights and drive away the animals.Solly Mabusela of Bakenberg outside Mokopane is another robbery victim who said: My cattle were taken by four strangers in broad daylight in the veld. An unknown man came and greeted me with my praise name in a friendly manner. As I asked him who he was, I looked around and I saw three other men driving away my cows. I shouted, but the one next to me produced a firearm. He ordered me at gunpoint to keep quiet and not look in the direction of where my cattle were being driven. When the trio and the cattle disappeared, he fired into the air before leaving me there without a single cow. The whole 15 cows were gone at once. In Senwabarwana, formerly Bochum, cattle farmers said some thieves have adopted a sneaky scam of tricking them out of their precious animals.They alleged that some wicked black farm supervisors working for white bosses deliberately cut fences around farms to lure cattle from villages to come in. Once your animals are on the farm land, the black farmer will immediately call his white boss who will demand R5000 for each cow before releasing them. They know that nobody can afford that amount, and that gives them a chance to take your cattle, Albert Moremi said.Police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said rustlers steal cattle to sell but during the festive season sheep and goats are also stolen for slaughtering.Cattle thieves target mostly unbranded animals as well as stray livestock. Pigs and chickens are also often stolen for the pot. We advise farmers to brand their animals and always look after them to keep thieves at bay and to prevent animals from straying onto public roads, Ngoepe said.MONTSHO MATLALAmontshom@thenewage.co.za