Mobile operator Vodacom is pleased with the Constitutional Court s decision to dismiss an application brought by Nkosana Makate the man who is fighting the telco for compensation over his invention, the popular please call me service. Makate, through his lawyers, is claiming R10.5bn from Vodacom in backdated liability from revenue generated by the service since 2000. The calculations for the amount were said to be based on actuarial estimations by his legal team putting the figure at about R70bn. The claim represents 15% of the revenue received thus far and excludes interest. Makate has recently returned to the Constitutional Court asking to grant him an order that for both parties to determine the revenue they had to use a simple computer programme to identify calls made within a set period of a please call me message being sent to a particular number and then calculate the revenue generated for Vodacom by the calls. The operator argued that it s difficult to determine the figure, saying the service was never treated in its income statement as a revenue-generating product, making it hard to come up with an accurate number. Makate, in turn, accused Vodacom of trying to renege on its obligation to pay him for the invention. Yesterday, Byron Kennedy, Vodacom s spokesperson, said: Vodacom notes and is pleased with the decision handed down by the Constitutional Court on Friday regarding the please call me matter. Vodacom s position has been consistent that the Constitutional Court order, which was handed down in April 2016, is clear and unambiguous and directs the parties to negotiate in good faith to determine reasonable compensation. In judgment issued on Friday, the justices said: The Constitutional Court has considered this application. It has concluded that the application should be dismissed as it bears no prospects of success. The application is dismissed with costs. Makate was a trainee accountant for Vodacom in 2000 when he claims to have invented the please call me concept. For 16 years, he has been in and out of court seeking to be rewarded for his invention, which he said he shared with Philip Geissler, then head of product development, who allegedly agreed to pay him a share of the profits generated from the product if it turned out to be technically and financially viable. Makate won the first hurdle of having the court declare that he had to be compensated by Vodacom but now the stumbling block is determining how much he is supposed to be paid. Makate could not be reached for comment. SAMUEL MUNGADZE|samuelm@thenewage.co.za