THE destruction of City Power s infrastructure in Alexandra is wreaking havoc in sections of the area which have been left without electricity since last Wednesday.This after a substation was vandalised causing electricity supply interruptions allegedly by a group of small businessmen hell-bent on forcing the entity to give them business.The member of the mayoral committee for environment and infrastructure services, Nico de Jager, said the disruption of electricity was due to a fire allegedly caused by the Region E Business Forum after they demanded that a limited percentage of all SMME work be assigned to them.The group has also been accused of threatening and preventing City Power employees from entering the depot to restore power. Bongi Mmako, member of the Region E business group, however, denied vandalising the infrastructure but admitted to shutting down City Power services in the area. We shut down activities in Alexandra but we have not vandalised anything or hurt anybody. We went into the city power office and told them we were going to shut the office down since they do not cater for us. We see people from outside the region and the country doing work here, but they are not prepared to develop local SMMEs at all, he said.De Jager said the city had called on the police to investigate all charges and ensure that individuals who hamper service delivery and threaten the safety of City Power employees through criminal activity were held to account.Sicelo Xulu, City Power s managing director, said: It has come to our attention that our technicians often feel threatened when they are dispatched to resolve outages or conduct maintenance-related work in the community of Alexandra.The safety of our technicians is our first priority. We will not hesitate to withdraw them from any potential risk or hostile environment. He said criminals involved in destroying electricity infrastructure impacted negatively on service delivery because often technicians had to be withdrawn and work temporarily halted until it was safe for them to return. A case of theft and vandalism was opened with the police. Officials and contractors from City Power will be escorted by the Johannesburg metro police department when attending to power outages. In the past financial year, City Power has made more than 250 arrests related to cable theft and structural damage to the infrastructure.More than R14m is lost annually in the city of Johannesburg due to theft and network vandalism. The business has taken a decision to install aerial bundle conductors (ABC) to deter cable thieves. The ABC is made of aluminium, which is of no value to cable theft syndicates. We have also started replacing lattice pylons with monopoles, Xulu said.KUTULLO MADISHA