The Gogo Tours caters for the elderly on jaunts in the Northern Cape town of Kimberley, introduces them to tourism activities and takes them to sights and areas in the province.Founder of Gogo Tours, 70-year-old Thokozile Matjokane, said the idea to start a tourism company came to her in a dream.Originally from Middleburg but now living in Soshanguve, Matjokane said her company was now set to move into unfamiliar territories, in different provinces.Before Matjokane started her business, she said she and her late brother and sister had plans to travel and see the coastal areas of South Africa. They would remind each other of places they still needed to see in their pension days.But her siblings died and left her with property and money at her disposal. After they died, I had dreams. I dreamt of my brother telling me to travel. This dream would come to me countless times and I would talk to my children about it, wondering if it was really something I wanted to do. Then I went to church, began praying about it and then a lady from the church insisted I organise church ladies to tour with me. I used the money I inherited to take elderly people on tours with me. I sought advice and it in 2012 I registered my non-profit organisation (NPO) using my own funds to move elderly people to and from different provinces. I made sure that nobody paid. Then, we did not have any sponsors but had as many as 200 elderly people joining in the fun, Matjokane said they started the trip with a tour of the botanical gardens, then to Freedom Park where she hired Putco buses to get around. Right now, we have about 8000 women on tours around South Africa. We have women in almost all of the nine provinces joining in our exciting tours, she said.Matjokane said they recently signed a memorandum of understanding with the national Tourism Department and have sponsors from food outlets, tourism associations, the transport industry and from literally all walks of life.Matjokane says her passion for travelling is what ignited her dream and she insisted that if it weren t for the dream she shared with her siblings, she probably wouldn t have established the NPO. When I first started, people began joining in, thinking there was money to be made from this. Many started dropping out when they realised that they were not benefiting. They didn t realise that I was using my own money to fund this project, she said.She runs the tours with her daughter Nkensane but unfortunately her other daughter Margaret died while working alongside her. I want to impart everything I have learnt to my daughters and I hope they continue to push this programme going forward, she said.Besides working in the tourism industry, Matjokane said when she completed her JC (Junior Certificate), she began working briefly as a nurse and then later as a teacher. She was on the board of trustees at the South African Breweries, the chairperson of the South African Civil Organisation and was also a councillor at a municipality in Gauteng.Matjokane has established many projects around her area hoping to help her community. At some point, we started buying machinery for pottery, making the pots ourselves and selling them.We also started a bakery and started teaching the community how tobake. We received a sponsor for our stoves from the British Embassy, she said.Matjokane was married to Peter Matjokane, who used to mock her for ruining her car tyres during her community activities. He just didn t understand it, she laughs. Even the community did not understand what I was doing, going back and forth, she said.Matjokane said she had been called to assist the community and said her lifelong ambition had always been to develop the community in which she lives. At 70 years old, she still continues to dream. Her mantra is that anyone can achieve whatever they want to achieve in life. I want to start my old age home, a place where old people can talk to each other and call it their home. It is going to happen. It s all a matter of timing and again, this for me is a calling and even though it didn t happen overnight, I still had the motivation to keep reaching for my dreams. One thing I always say is, behind every door is a person and I do not take no for an answer, she said.During the Gogo Tour in Kimberley, Matjokane took elderly men and women to visit the Big Hole, then they took a trip on the tram there and lastly had dinner at a local hotel before going to the Galeshewe swimming pool for some leisure.The elderly women also received massages courtesy of the Bloemspa.NOMUSA MVUBUnomusam@thenewage.co.za