AMAZULU FC goalkeeper Sage Stephens believes his teammate and Amajita striker Menzi Ndwandwe has the potential of being counted as one of the best strikers South Africa has ever produced.Ndwandwe burst onto the football scene when he caught the attention of AmaZulu s former coach Steve Barker when he was at the KwaZuluNatal Academy two years ago during the Durban U-19 Tournament. Barker didn t waste any time, giving the youngster a professional contract with Usuthu s first team and his debut in the National First Division three months later.His talent was not hard to notice and under Amajita coach Thabo Senong, Ndwandwe has become a regular player in the U-20 national side. He will mark another milestone in his career when he represents the country in the U-20 Afcon in Zambia next week. Teammate Stephens agrees with those who believe the youngster has a bright future, but the goalkeeper has urged the 19 year old to steer clear from anything that might see his rising career take a nosedive. He is a gifted young player with a great work ethic. But with him being a youngster the difficult part will be to stay focused on his game because there are a lot of distractions in football, Stephens said. As long as he can keep away from those distractions he will go far in football. At the NFD side, Ndwandwe is competing with two legendary strikers in Siyabonga Nomvethe and Mabhuti Khenyeza. The two former Kaizer Chiefs strikers are among the five players who have scored more than 100 goals in the Premier Soccer League era. Stephens said for Ndwandwe to play for the same team as those players was a blessing as he would learn from the best. He is very fortunate to be in the same team with players such as Nomvethe and Mabhuti. Two great legends of the game who are still making a great impact on local football, he said. It will be wise for him to take the opportunity to learn as much as he can from them and to apply what he learns from them everyday because they wouldn t still be here if they weren t good enough. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi