The International Cooperation, Trade and Security cluster chairperson, Minister Edna Molewa, at a media briefing in Cape Town yesterday reaffirmed the government s commitment to ensure a reduction in the cost of communications in the country and SADC region. President Jacob Zuma announced during his state of the nation address that government and regulatory institutions will continue to focus on efforts to reduce the cost of communication including data, Molewa said. While our policy focus is mainly on price reduction of data in South Africa, we ll also engage the operators to participate in the SADC home and away roaming initiative to reduce the cost of roaming in the region. Molewa also noted developments made in the ICT sector. She said the government would intensify its efforts in expanding access to information and communications technology. The information and communications technology sector is highly regulated in terms of international standards that are set out by multilateral institutions such as the International Telecommunication Union and the Universal Postal Union. Our government continues to participate in these international institutions as well as continental and regional ones. Since the dawn of democracy and South Africa s readmission into the international community, our government has played a significant role in the creation of a global communications environment that advances equal development, Molewa said.The cluster also regarded Morocco s re-entry into the fold of the African Union (AU) as a step towards providing African solutions to African problems .International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana Mashabane said Morocco s successful bid to join the AU would assist the continental union in finding solutions to the quarrel over the disputed territory of Western Sahara. Morocco has applied for admission to the AU. It s not readmission. Morocco was never a member of the AU. Morocco left during the time of OAU, so they have applied for admission and we thought as the AU this would be an opportunity for Africans to resolve this African challenge and to get rid of the occupation of one country by the other, she said.Molewa said that despite objections being made by AU member states, the cluster welcomed Morocco s admission, but the country would have to abide by AU governing principles. As President Jacob Zuma has stated, South Africa accepts the outcomes of the summit on the admission of Morocco to promote unity and coherence within the continent. However, there were strong views from member states that by virtue of acceding to the constitutive act, Morocco should abide by all provisions of the act and immediately resolve it s relations with the Western Sahara to ensure territorial integrity between the two states, she said.Switching to the tourism front, Tourism Minister Derek Hannekom said last year s upward trend of tourist arrivals in the country augured well for an even larger boost this year. We can say that we ll hit the 10 million mark in tourist arrivals for the year. We have a favourable exchange rate and another factor is that many countries in the world have in the eyes of the travelling public have become less safe, South Africa is perceived as a safe tourist destination. It s a value for money destination, we ve intensified our marketing efforts. So it s a combination of the factors that have led to these increases and we believe that these increases will continue until 2017, Hanekom said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za