The shortage of qualified teachers in the province remains a challenge after it transpired that a school that scored a 0% pass rate in mathematics last year had been taught by an unqualified teacher.This came to light recently when the DA s shadow minister of basic education, Gavin Davis, said on Twitter that the class of 2016 at Isifisosethu Secondary School in Ilembe district were taught mathematics by an unqualified teacher.Sadtu provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said schools in the rural areas of the province are most affected by the shortage. It is known that the provincial rural schools always have to use unqualified teachers to fill the lack of qualified teachers in the province. So if there is a need for a teacher for a certain subject, a person who is seen as capable of teaching that subject is then hired to teach it, Caluza said.She said the department should pay rural incentives to attract and retain qualified teachers at rural schools.The chairperson of Cosas in the region, Siyabonga Phakhathi, said they had mandated the department of education to get rid of unqualified teachers before the year is over. We are waiting for a response from the department on a way forward. But in our provincial congress we are very clear that we are scrapping all those teachers. We do not want our pupils to be taught by unqualified teachers because the first thing those teachers still need is to be emancipated in their mind before they can start teaching. Davis said the party became aware of this situation when they were handed information about the qualifications of teachers at school during their visit.The school recorded a 0% pass rate for the subject last year and figures from 2013 show that the province is the worst affected when it came to unqualified teachers. There were 6050 unqualified teachers with the highest standard passed on the department s payroll, accounting for more than 85% of the more than 7000 unqualified teachers employed in the country.Education expert, Prof Elias Mothipa said the contributing elements to the province s lack of qualified teachers is the failure of students who are studying for teachers degrees or diplomas, to graduate in time, low salaries and the unconducive working environment at many schools in the province. To produce teachers takes time, especially in this present era because teachers must first have a BA as a starting point. Thereafter, they must train for three years at least to be qualified teachers. But our students are not coping with degree material. They tend to take more than three years to pass a three-year course. They often end up taking five years to complete and still have training to do. So producing qualified teachers takes more or less eight years. The second thing is that the teachers are not well paid. Also, the conditions of teaching are not beneficial so they are resigning before they reach their retirement age, Mothipa said.The government s decision to close teaching colleges was also adding to the problem. The problem with going to universities is that they are competing for space with others. The colleges were meant to produce only teachers and with universities you have to cater for all other specialisations. So the space allocated at universities is not enough to produce the number of teachers that are needed by the department, he said.The department of education had not responded to emailed questions by the time of going to press.LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za