THE Mother city will commence with the final asphalt surfacing of a section of Main Road in Kalk Bay in anticipation of the internationally-acclaimed Cape Town Cycle Tour set for next month. The city s transport and urban development authority has made exceptional progress thus far with the third and final phase of the Main Road project in the Southern Peninsula. All in all, we have invested about R304m in the rehabilitation of Main Road, which covers a distance of 4.5km from the intersection with Atlantic Road in Muizenberg to the intersection with Clovelly Road just past Kalk Bay. We are in the concluding months of this three-year project and decided to do the final asphalt surfacing of Main Road between Wooley s Pool and the Kalk Bay Harbour entrance earlier than planned. This is to provide the 35000 cyclists who will participate in the Cape Town Cycle Tour a smooth downhill ride along this section, which has a number of manhole covers that are higher than normal above the road surface because the rehabilitation work is not completed as yet, the city s mayoral committee member: transport and urban development authority, Brett Herron said. The surfacing, however, will require the temporary implementation of a stop/ go system along Main Road to allow for the preparation of the base and placing of the asphalt. Motorists should expect delays and use alternative routes where possible. Furthermore, the implementation times for the stop/go system should be regarded as a guide only, as any unforeseen challenges could delay the works. I also want to request that all road users be particularly cautious over the next two weeks with the high number of cyclists on our roads who are training for the cycle tour, Herron said. The city thanked the residents and visitors for their patience and support for the Main Road project thus far. The reconstruction of Main Road between the Kalk Bay Harbour entrance and Clovelly Road is in its final stages. Once completed, visitors and residents will be able to parallel park along the seaside. Pedestrians will also enjoy the new footways on the mountain and seaside all the way from Wooley s Pool to the bridge. The walkway on the sea side will be between 3m-5m wide to accommodate both pedestrians and cyclists, and the footway on the mountain side will be about 1.5m wide, Herron said. Apart from the installation of the new underground services, the reinforced concrete retaining wall above the old Clovelly railway station has also been completed. The retaining wall is still to be fitted with a handrail as well as with a glass barrier along a short section where Metrorail s overhead electricity cables are in close proximity to the footway, Herron said. The retaining wall extends for a distance of nearly 500m from Wooley s Pool to Clovelly, with a reinforced crash barrier. At this stage it is anticipated that the project will be completed ahead of schedule and well before the summer holidays in December. Once completed, our residents will benefit greatly from the rehabilitated Main Road, which we estimate will last at least another 30 years without the need for major maintenance, Herron said. 701295 TNA REPORTER