On the main road leading to the village of Ga-Maroga, Burgersfort in Limpopo, men and women, some with babies strapped to their backs, wield picks, crowbars and shovels and dig deep into the ground for chrome.The villagers call this wheelbarrow or pavement mining and it has become a source of subsistence for villagers in a community with limited job opportunities. There was a mine, I use to work there, a miner who declined to be named said. Some of the people here used to work there as well, the mine closed so people have no job opportunities. This is what we have. He says his life has not improved since he started mining as a zama zama as informal miners are known, because the conditions are harsh and the work is harder than in the mine. He also gave up his ambition of becoming a diesel mechanic.The zama zama miner was in the process of obtaining his N3 qualification in diesel mechanics hoping that this would get him a promotion at the now shut mine.The illegal prospector says the community is aware that the main road to the village is being destroyed but it hardly matters as most do not have cars.Emmanuel Morete is also digging for his share of fortune. Morete says that people in the area are hungry and they are digging in the heat and dust with basic implements out of desperation. What has brought us here is hunger, this is what made us come here and mine to make money. Morete said he had a better Christmas last year than in 2015.Despite the control the zama zamas now have over their own fortunes as they remove the chrome from the earth below the road, they are nevertheless not yet masters of their own fortune.The traders who buy the raw chrome bearing rock determine the price, with only a small margin for negotiation. The price they are offered bears no relation to the formal markets. The buyers come from Hong Kong and Johannesburg. The prices differ. Some sell for R400 others for R500, it depends on what price you are willing to sell it for, Morete said, but usually it is a minimum of R400 for a ton. This is a benefit to everyone. And (in) that way it s better because children can go to school, especially this year because the books have yet to arrive, Morete said. With this money they buy books, others are able to eat in their homes. He explains that the zama zamas work every day. There is no authority that checks on them. I started mining in December, Thandi Maroga says.She says that she works about 11 hours on her site, starting in the cool of the morning, working through the heat of midday and knocking off at 5pm. We come here to mine so that our children can buy books and uniforms. This money helped us a lot in January, she said.While the road is removed bit by bit, only a few seem concerned about the closure of mining operations at Black Chrome Mine.The closure was as a result of a dispute between three traditional leaders in the area.The conflict is apparently based on a dispute about shares in the mine and the amount that each of these traditional authorities is set to get, running into billions of rands.The Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) told The New Age that it was treating the matter with requisite urgency .It said in a statement that a task team based in the office of the Premier in Limpopo had been established to look into the matter. The Department of Mineral Resources remains the only authority that can issue a mining permit, prospecting rights and mining rights, in terms of the applicable laws. Any other entity undertaking this responsibility is breaking the law, the DMR said in a statement. Given the nature of mining, it is extremely dangerous to operate outside the regulatory framework. The department regulates the industry to ensure mining occurs in a sustainable manner and that permit and rights holders also comply with health and safety regulations, the DMR said.The Chamber of Mines estimates the annual commercial value of illegal mining and illicit dealings in precious metals and diamonds at more than R7bn.While the Chamber of Mines, which represents business interests in the mining sector, remains concerned about conditions in which the minerals are mined by so-called illegal miners including loss of life because of unregulated working in dangerous conditions but also crime-related activities such as bribery, violence against workers and child labour.It suggests that one of the ways to control this industry is to target the buyers market nationally and internationally. This work is undertaken hand in hand with international agencies such as the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute, European police, Interpol and international embassies, a chamber document reads. This is primarily as a result of their illegal mining activities feeding into the illicit trade of precious metals and diamonds, coupled with the lucrative high financial returns, the document reads.But Mining Affected Communities United in Action (Macau) which represents informal or illegal miners said that the DMR should not take such a narrow view of mining. Artisanal mining is something that happens across the world. There are millions of people who engage in this practice, Macau s Christopher Rutledge said. Some countries regulate it because they realise that this is partly a way to reduce poverty, particularly in Africa. There are a couple of countries that have tried to regulate, Tanzania being one of them. While artisanal mining is recognised by the UN and the African Union the South African government has not yet grappled with this form of mining. By regulating the artisanal mining sector we are able to ensure a number of things like health and safety standards for the workers, reasonable returns on their work and labour and value and benefit for the broader economy in the community they come from, Rutledge said.As the authorities grapple with the issues, Maroga digs deep. The rock she wrests from the earth will mean food, clothing and a better life.-TNA Reporter: Hloni Mashigo Watch ANN7 at 4pm today for our special report and debate on Ga-Maroga s zama zamas.