Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba s raid together a special task team of police to Rosettenville has largely been welcomed. Social media has been abuzz after Mashaba and about 40 police groups raided a number of houses on Wednesday night in search of drugs, illegal occupants and brothels. This followed a spate of violent incidents at the weekend during which properties belonging to alleged drug dealers and other criminal elements were torched by angry community members, who demanded that foreigners be driven out of the area. However, some raised concerns on Twitter that the mayor was targeting black African immigrants. While Herman Mashaba polices Africans rights to be in Africa, an African child in Alexandra plays and grows up alongside gigantic rats, Pearl Mathibela said. Rosettenville was in the hands of the DA for the past 20 years and nothing better has been done. Banks moved out of Rosettenville, a tweet said. @AfrikanJeanyus said: What Mashaba is doing in Joburg is wrong. It solves nothing. The root of our problems is poor leadership! African leadership. But many welcomed his actions. Thanks Mr Mashaba, GP must be clean like b4 because the ANC is dirty. That s why we have crime, poverty and unemployment. The cause is corrupted leaders, read another. My child is merely six years old and yet he already knows about drugs that are being peddled around here. This was how angry Rosettenville resident Barbara Roberts summed up the extent to which drugs have consumed her community. Roberts was one of several Rosettenville, Region F residents who welcomed the raid. They will not do us justice. We have to prevent them because we do not want to have a lawless city. This is why we have mobilised all the law enforcement agencies to go into the hot spots with us and send a strong signal to criminals terrorising our people, Mashaba said. It is not only the residents of Rosettenville who are having sleepless nights about these criminal elements. This is something that many residents across the city endure. So our task force is going to ensure that residents of our city are protected. Among the people who were arrested during the night raid, some who were reportedly found with unlicensed firearms. Mashaba said that they also discovered a brothel run by illegal immigrants. We will have to get the Department of Home Affairs on board to help us deal with this matter. None of these people have legal documents for their stay here, Mashaba said. There is not much we can do because we are not getting much help from the police, Roberts said. It is only our Community Policing Forum that responds immediately but it also does not have much power. TNA Reporter