Some 500 households received electricity for the first time in Taung on the eve of the state of the province address.The initiative is part of many switchon electrification projects as efforts to avail power to all areas in the province intensify. North West premier, Supra Mahumapelo said this was a second achievement of Eskom s North West operating unit for February alone. More than 1 400 houses were electrified at Kgabalatsane village in Madibeng local municipality. We are here today to hand over electricity projects to Khaukhwe and Ntswanahatshe villages. People need to understand that electricity is not all about switching on. Electricity changes the lives of the people dramatically. Those who could not have access to radio and television, will be able to do so precisely. That will assist them to know what is happening around the world and to make informed decisions. The electricity will also assist the people to save money, Mahumapelo said.He said life was too expensive for those who had no electricity because they relied on perishable foods. Mahumapelo said those who received electricity could now buy freezers and preserve their food. Electricity will make life easier because people will no longer go to the veld to fetch firewood. School children can also be able to study using electricity. We have 17 houses that were left behind and Eskom promised us to electrify those households before the end of April, Mahumapelo said.Eskom regional manager for Electrification in Dr Ruth Mompati District, Andries Wolmarans said: We will continue to electrify households across the province. We have a good working relationship with the province. We will continue to improve the lives of the masses. Ward 2 councillor, Toloki Tlhaganyane said: Electricity is one of the most blessings that science has given to humankind. Electricity has become a part of modern life and just imagine the world without it. Even though our area is predominantly rural, we will work hard to change the lives of our people. Our ward consists of more than 16000 people and we have a high rate of unemployment. It is imperative to give our people basic needs and capacitate them. We also have few projects that will assist us to eradicate poverty, unemployment and inequality. Baga Phuduhucwana Tribal Authority paramount chief, Kgosi Tshepo Mankuroane applauded the provincial government for changing the lives of the people. Makuroane urged people to use electricity sparingly. We cannot live without electricity in this modern life. We need to use electricity sparingly and reduce consumption. We need to be conscious consumers and we also urge Eskom to embark on an outreach programmes and provide training to our people. It is hard to maintain the life of the human community in this modern days. We need to be more cautious to avoid power outages. The people social life almost revolve around electricity. We hope to see more projects coming to Taung and more job opportunities being created, Mankuroane said.One of the beneficiaries, Keolebogile Shuping said life is much easier. Shuping said she stays with her husband and two children. Life will be much easier because we have electricity. Going to the veld and fetching firewood was hardship. We believe that our government will continue to cater for elderly people. No one is working and we are too old to do other chores, she said. Newsnote