Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan is under increasing pressure to extract more wealth taxes when he delivers his budget next week but South Africans are already heavily taxed compared to their Brics (Brazil, Russia, India and China) peers.Analysts also believe there is a good chance that Gordhan will raise the value added tax (VAT) rate in this year s budget. However, they caution that the government must cushion the effect of such a rise on the poor by, for instance, making more products zero-rated for VAT. Sibusiso Thungo, tax manager at the South African Institute of Professional Accountants (Saipa) says: Our VAT has remained unchanged at 14% for many years, while needs have soared.There is a limit to how much more personal taxes can be raised and decreased economic activity affects tax receipts. We were speculating a VAT rate increase in the mid-term budget, which did not materialise, but I fear the minister may have no alternative now. A further point is South Africa s VAT rate is somewhat lower than the global average.Even a relatively poor country, like Mozambique, has a rate of 17%. If VAT does go up, it s unlikely to be more than one percentage point (to 15%), he said. SA s tax rates are, on a whole, very comparable with developed first-world nations, where similar allowances are provided before the deduction of tax and with progressive marginal rates of up to 40-45%, Gavin Smith, head of Africa for financial advisory firm deVere Acuma says. Among Brics nations, we see no such correlation with top income tax rates at 27.5%, 13%, 30%, 45% and 41% respectively. Income tax, the one we feel as we collect our pay cheques, could be seen as a hefty percentage to hand over compared to our peers, Smith says. For many South Africans who are taxed at the highest levels, the concerns are less about the tax rate than about transparency and accountability when it comes to fiscal spending.Gordhan s challenge is to show taxpayers, who are essentially the government s funders, how the government has lived up to its promise to improve its ability to spend this money wisely. Many developing economies face a dilemma when seeking to raise tax revenue. The easiest method is to extract more tax from existing taxpayers, Tom Elliott, deVere s international investment strategist says. It is administratively cheaper, and has less risk of incurring the wrath of the wider population, than trying to broaden the tax base and spreading the load across more shoulders. South Africa faces such a dilemma and appears to be taking the easier option. However, Elliott says, increasing the tax burden on existing taxpayers comes at a cost. It could encourage high earners to hide their earnings and drive talent out of the country. This was a feature of the UK economy in the 60s and 70s, and was only reversed when the Thatcher government made deep cuts for high earners. The local economy could suffer a much more severe version of this due to political uncertainty. Raising taxes on high earners could accentuate the problem of talented South Africans leaving the country, Elliot said.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za