Proteas bowler Dwaine Pretorius has visions of being a genuine contributor with both bat and ball at international level in future.Following his standout showing in the second ODI in Christchurch where he scored 50 off 27 balls with the bat and took 2/40 in his 10 overs with the ball, the 27 year old believes he can establish himself as an all-rounder.The Proteas are currently blessed with all-rounders including Andile Phehlukwayo, Wayne Parnell and Chris Morris all capable contributing with both ball and bat.Pretorius s statistics make decent reading. He averages 42 in first class cricket for the Highveld Lions and boasts a domestic T20 strike rate of 140.On Wednesday, he nearly won the match for the Proteas when he scored 50 runs after he put on a 61 run partnership with Phehlukwayo for the ninth wicket. I would love to be seen as a 50:50 allrounder, Pretorius said. I would like to contribute in both aspects of the game. I do pride myself on my batting and my bowling, I put in a lot of work in both facets of the game. Hopefully, people will start seeing me as a 50:50 player so I can keep adding value to the team, that s the most important thing for me. Pretorius was pleased with his performance and hopes to take it to their next ODI at Westpac Stadium in Wellington tomorrow as they look to bounce back to winning ways. I take a lot of confidence. It was only my second opportunity to bat. It s great to contribute to the team, we all play for the country and we want to do well. I ve worked my whole life to get to this stage it s awesome to contribute. Pretorius also believes the team environment and culture has allowed the rookies to express themselves without self-doubt or fear of letting the team down hence they performed well when given a chance. What I like about the setup since I have been involved is that the team doesn t rely heavily on one or two players, they rely on everyone to contribute. That has been the key in the last 12 games that we have played really well. The team contributes, it s not just one or two players, that is the key. Neville Khoza| nevillek@thenewage.co.za