Informal car guards operating at parking areas in and around Hatfield and the surroundings of University of Pretoria have been given an opportunity to better their lives.The Brooklyn police station is adopting a new tolerance and social crime prevention approach which aims to change the perception of car guards as irritations and crime contributors.Brooklyn station commander Brig Kushie Nair said she had been spurred on to befriend car guards in a bid to address the deeply entrenched social inequalities through upliftment programmes. This will be done in conjunction with the University of Pretoria s community engagement department. The station already started with a database and a profile on the car guards. Weekly meetings and training sessions will take place to build trust, Nair said. Some of the life skills workshops that will be presented to them will address healthy lifestyle, substance abuse, anger management and relationships. A skills audit will be conducted and students from the University of Pretoria will give further training to empower the car guards. Nair said although she cannot change the living conditions of the car guards, she wants to improve their quality of life. Acknowledging and respecting the human being behind the reflector jacket is important. She wants to involve the broader community to assist with projects in this regard through the distribution of winter warming jackets and blankets, birthday cakes, quarterly braais and certificates for successful completion of workshops. It was made clear to the car guards that this friendship is not giving them indemnity when it comes to crime. Action will still be taken against them and they will still be arrested when they are engaging in intimidation tactics, criminal activities or when they do not adhere to the Road Traffic Act. Car guards that registered for the programme were issued with a name card with their photo. Hatfield will be used as a pilot project and if successful, it will be extended to other areas. NONDUMISO ZWANEnondumisoz@thenewage.co.za