In a quest to deal with the scourge of HIV-Aids in its labour sending area consisting of villages namely Silindini, uBlankwe, uHala, Qebe, Sidindi, Matyuli, Ngxangxasi, Sixhanti and Mpindweni in the Eastern Cape, platinum mining company Lonmin together with the communities, created the Silindini home-based care programme.The programme was launched at Engcobo health sub-district and Sidindi tribal authority and included other stakeholders such as the department of social development and the department of agriculture, Engcobo local municipalities In 2011, the project was launched partnering the ENgcobo health sub-district and Sidindi tribal authority and other stakeholders.There are 21 volunteers in the group and they have been trained in home based care. To date they care for 184 patients and 55 orphaned and vulnerable children (OVC). The group also takes care of 57 patients who are monitored according to the department of health s directly observed treatment support.Volunteers remain key agents in raising awareness, educating on prevention and providing support for those infected with and affected by HIV-Aids. They also participate in outreach activities organised by the health department.Lonmin supports this programme by supplying medical kits and immune booster meals to deserving patients, Desire Monareng Lonmin community development manager said. We also pay the volunteers monthly stipends. The department of health expressed gratitude for the existence of the group citing the difference which the project is doing, Monareng said. In caring for their OVCs, the project has since procured school uniforms and sleeping mattresses for the kids and have taken them out on an educational excursion to East London. The mining company also implemented other economic development projects in the area such as the construction of a bridge and the Thusong Service Centre, which enable different government departments to render services to community members in villages where the projects are in place.The project has registered as a nonprofit organisation with the department of social development and have to yearly renew this status accompanied by an audited bank account.As a formalised group it is therefore easier to source funding from other organisations and the project has since worked with other stakeholders to assist with their established permaculture food garden, which supplies those who are sick and neighbouring schools nutrition programmes.The project was provided with pipes, water tanks to enable this gardening initiative to be efficient. The project has a separate account for proceeds made from the food garden and they are able to account for funds accordingly. While the other stakeholder provides support on HIV-Aids information and governance training.Monareng said out of the different HIV-Aids projects, the Eastern Cape proved to be self-reliant with little supervision from the Lonmin Marikana based office. They have a committee which takes care of the day to day running of the project. The project takes pride in their yearly team-building initiative whereby they contribute money on monthly basis to visit places like Durban. TNA REPORTERprovinces@thenewage.co.za