The city of Cape Town has announced it has joined national efforts to highlight sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in a bid to reduce the number of STIs, including curbing the spread of HIVAids.STI-Condom Week is marked annually on the South African health calendar. While many STIs could be treated, some people felt uncomfortable accessing treatment for fear of being stigmatised. City clinics offer education, advice, diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections. Over a 12-month period, 41153 new STIs were treated, an average of 3 429 a month.This figure is slightly lower than the previous year s average of 3 599 a month. The drop in the number of sexually transmitted infections is not significant. Stigma remains a real challenge and there are people who refuse to seek help because they re concerned about attitudes and perceptions, the city s mayoral committee member for safety and security and social services, JP Smith said.To protect from STIs, male and female condoms were distributed free of charge at all clinics, with about 50 million male condoms distributed and more than 1.5 million female condoms over a 12-month period.The distribution of male condoms in the public health sector had been a hot topic of late. Research found that Choice condoms were losing their appeal and a bigger variety of options was sought.This led the national Department of Health to introduce Max condoms in a range of scents and colours like strawberry, grape and vanilla. The flavoured condom range is popular, so much so that the service provider had been unable to keep up with the demand. Our clinics are out of stock and only expecting a new batch in the next week or two. So, we appeal to the public to be responsible and abstain or use the plain Choice condoms in the meantime. Let safety and responsibility be the flavour of the month if vanilla or strawberry cannot, Smith said.Other key service delivery indicators relating to sexual health in 2015-16 included 40 635 reproductive health services to clients under 18 years of age, against a target of 40000 and 12 954 new clients started on antiretroviral treatment against a target of 8 540. City health is doing a lot of good work around the health and well-being of residents who rely on the public health sector. Wellness and education drives are taken to communities, however, we need to start talking more honestly and openly about sex, especially when it concerns young people.TNA REPORTERprovinces@thenewage.co.za