Premier Stan Mathabatha conceded in his state of the province address (Sopa) in Polokwane at the weekend that the delay in the delivery of textbooks to schools at the beginning of the year was a setback in restoring good governance in the province.He said access to education was guaranteed in the Bill of Rights and that no one should do anything to undermine that basic human right. The executive council has adopted the 10-point plan to ensure that the unfortunate incident of late delivery of books never happens again. In terms of the plan all schools must have placed their order by the end of April 2017. By the end of May the department must have ordered books from publishers. These textbooks and the entire stationery must be delivered to the warehouses by publishers by the end of July 2017, Mathabatha said.Service providers should conclude distribution of textbooks to schools by the end of October this year. Schools should then ensure that pupils receive textbooks and stationery on the first day of schooling, he said. The districts, working together with principals, must also strengthen textbook retrieval system and continue to monitor the enforcement of textbooks and stationery delivery plan, the premier said.Regarding the 62.5% pass rate in the matric class of 2016 which is 3% down from the previous year, he said it was bad news for Limpopo Development Plan. I have directed the MEC for the department to develop a comprehensive, coherent and workable plan to ensure that this downward trend is immediately reversed. The department must also move with speed to ensure that all vacancies of principals, schools heads of departments and related promotional posts are filled as a matter of urgency, he said.On special economic development zones (SEZs), the premier said he was pleased that the national cabinet has approved Musina-Makhado special economic zones on July 2016. We have submitted that Tubatse, another strategic growth point in the province be declared a special economic zone. We are confident that Tubatse will soon be declared a special economic zones. These two special economic zones will attract investment of more than R44bn, he said.The Musina-Makhado SEZ consisting of energy and metallurgical industrial park is projected to create 20 800 direct jobs. Tubatse SEZ in Burgersfort which will focus mainly on mineral beneficiation, is expected to create about 2000 permanent jobs, he said.According to the premier the audit opinion on municipalities across the province was showing signs of improvements. We have moved from five disclaimers in the 2014-15 financial year to two disclaimers in the 2015-16 financing year. We have also improved on unqualified audit opinions from 10 in the 2014- 2015 to 13 in the 2015-2016 financial years. On housing, Mathabatha said the programme to reduce housing backlog and restore the dignity of people was in full swing. In this financial year, we have managed to build 9 561 rural housing units. We have also managed to build 211 disaster housing units. An additional 286 abandoned housing units were rectified, completed and handed over to beneficiaries, he said.Over the coming five years focus will be on the programme to upgrade informal settlements around mining towns, the premier said.MONTSHO MATLALAmontshom@thenewage.co.za