THE province may have recorded a drop in the number of crimes, but police have embarked on an ambitious initiative to ensure that communities, including schools, get educated on safety and crime prevention and how to survive when faced with the scourge.Although Police Minister Nkosinathi Nhleko reported a decrease in criminal activity in the province when he released crime statistics, A total of 24 150 cases were reported for the 2015- 16 financial year.Provincial corporate communication Lt-Col Dimakatso Mooi said the police have a prevention unit that is available to educate society on how to avoid and deal with criminal activities. We have a Social Crime Prevention Unit whose primary focus is to educate our community about crime and how it affects the society at large, as the scourge of crime does not discriminate but affects us all, Mooi said. There is a school safety programme which is aimed at teaching pupils and scholars about the consequences of crime and also ensuring that the schools are safe. Police head of crime research and statistics, Norman Sekhukhune, said crimes such as robbery, murder, attempted murder have decreased in three of the nine provinces in the country in the 2015-16 financial year.Sekhukhune said contact crimes have increased collectively in Gauteng, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, Northern Cape and the Western Cape. Contact crimes have decreased in three of the nine provinces include Eastern Cape, Free State and KZN. Whereas we have observed increases in Gauteng province, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, Northern Cape and the Western Cape. Murder has increased by 4.9% when we look at the provincial breakdown, the only province that has managed to decrease this crime is the Northern Cape. The rest of the provinces have shown an increase, Sekhukhune said.She said the constitution has created a by-law for the police service to use to ensure that criminal activities in areas are dealt with accordingly. As the police we are mandated by the South African constitution to prevent, combat and investigate crime, to maintain public order, to protect and secure South Africa s inhabitants and their property and to uphold and enforce the law, Mooi said. She said in the Northern Cape we are fulfilling this mandate by being more visible, that is having daily patrols, conducting stop and searches. The police do not work in isolation in the fight against crime but also work together with other law enforcement agencies, government stakeholders and community structures in order to combat crime in the province, Mooi said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANE