There is still no certainty that 17 million South Africans who get a monthly lifeline from the state will get their social grants on April 1.This is because the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) has failed to come up with an alternative to a contract with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS), which has been declared unlawful by the Constitutional Court. This contract ends on March 31.Reporting to the social development portfolio committee on progress yesterday, Sassa said it had been unable to find a replacement for CPS. It would therefore approach the Constitutional Court as a matter of urgency to ask for permission for CPS to continue paying social grants for another year.According to a Sassa presentation in Parliament yesterday, this option is likely to be virtually the only mechanism to regularise such an approach, which would otherwise be irregular .Explaining this decision, Sassa CEO Thokozani Magwaza said the choice between not paying grants on April 1 or continuing with an association that has been declared irregular and invalid by the Constitutional Court was simple. If the country is to burn on April 1, I choose the country not to burn. A decision had to be made. On April 1 we have to pay. How we pay is another matter, Magwaza said.Magwaza declined to elaborate on what Sassa would do if the Constitutional Court turned down its application. If the Constitutional Court does not allow us to deviate I m not going to dwell much on it. But he said the national Treasury had said it would support Sassa if the Constitutional Court ruled in favour of its application.Magwaza denied that he had come under political pressure. I must say it openly in this meeting we have not had political pressure on the issue of CPS. I have been against what CPS has been doing. I m the one that pushed for CPS and NET1 and other companies to be charged for wrongdoing. Asked by committee chairperson Zoleka Capa if he would ensure illegal deductions were not done if the Constitutional Court condoned Sassa s application, CPS is not going to deduct any money .The Sassa team came in for scorching and bruising criticism from opposition members of Parliament for failing to meet the requirements set down by the Constitutional Court.IFP MP Liesl van der Merwe believed that everything Sassa had presented should be disregarded, particularly because it still has to get permission from the Constitutional Court to extend an invalid and unlawful contract. For me today, we must walk away and say this is a national crisis. You have not approached the court. You have not approached Treasury. We need to understand what you did in the last four years. This also boils down to the issue of leadership of the minister. What are you going to tell South Africans? DA MP Lindy Wilson said the admission by Sassa that we have failed was probably the most honest admission she had heard from it. If you d done well, how could you not deliver on one of the Constitutional Court s deliverables? You have known for months that you could not deliver grants on April 1. To date you have not gone back to court. You are implying to us you have forced an emergency. What is the cost going to be for us? Why has it taken so long to get back to the court? I find it unbelievable that this has not been done? DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za