Five-year-old Ashline Telmarks mind has been terribly affected after being shot while playing in the park with her friends in Hanover Park.She is traumatised by any loud noises around her and is emotionally distraught.The shooting was believed to be gang related and has left doctors questioning whether Ashline will ever walk again.After spending three weeks at Red Cross Children s Hospital after being shot on January 24, Ashline was on Tuesday transferred to the Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre in Mitchells Plain. She is expected to start physical therapy there next week.Her mother, Merletha, 23, said Ashline had gone from being a talkative, bubbly girl to a withdrawn and emotional child. She refuses to go back to Hanover Park. She has been confined to a hospital bed for almost a month and the only time she gets out is when I push her around in her wheelchair. She doesn t fully understand what has happened to her, but doesn t want to go back home, she said.The bullet hit her in the back as she fled when gunmen opened fire in Algoa Court. It exited through her abdomen, causing damage to her spine, kidney and intestines.While doctors managed to repair some of her internal wounds, Ashline is unable to move one of her legs and is in constant pain.She relies on medication and has emotional outbursts when the pain becomes unbearable.Merletha barely leaves her daughter s bedside and has spent every night with her, despite hospital staff insisting she go home and take care of herself.Her other child one-year-old baby is living with a friend.She is separated from her husband, who works part-time at Cape Town harbour.Merletha had been collecting her children s belongings from her mother s house when she heard the shots. Ashline was supposed to be in the bath at that time, not in the park. When I hurried home, the shooting stopped, someone stopped me along the way to say Ashline had been hit. I blamed myself for what happened. She wasn t supposed to be there and I wasn t with her. Last week she spoke about what happened for the first time, Merletha said. She said: Mommy, we were playing and they shot me. But don t worry, it s not your fault, so don t cry. And stop biting your nails because it s disgusting. Doctors have said that Ashline will remain at the rehabilitation centre for at least three months.Her mother will be taught how to care for her as she uses a catheter, because she can t go to the bathroom on her own.Whether she will walk unaided and attend a mainstream school was unlikely, Merletha said. Ashline cries a lot, but when she is in the wheelchair, she is somewhat okay. When I wheeled her around for the first time at Red Cross, she was so happy. I took her to the hospital park where one of the children asked her to come play. But she couldn t and she was in tears because a girl laughed at her because she couldn t join them. It broke my heart. The park used to be her favourite place. Tatenda Chiriseri | provinces@thenewage.co.za