Cosatu kicks off its three-day central executive committee (CEC) meeting today with a raft of political and economic events on the agenda.General secretary Bheki Ntshanlitshali said that while the ANC-led tripartite alliance had a turbulent start to the year, the union federation would leave no stone unturned in its deliberations on crucial political and economic events. It s an opening CEC and all these issues are on our agenda, Ntshalintshali said.He said discussions on the recently proposed minimum wage and Cosatu s decision to pull out of the signing of an agreement on the wage deal would form part of deliberations among the federation s affiliates. For us it s a process. We were given a mandate to go and negotiate and now its time to give feedback, he said. It s a normal process and we are doing it deliberately. We are reminding people that we have to consult our members for feedback, he said.Ntshalintshali, making reference to criticism levelled against it by rival labour bodies, said that the trade union federation viewed the R3500 a month minimum wage as a step in the right direction, especially towards the realisation of a living wage. For now the national minimum wage is not a living wage but the federation engaged employers to double wages in vulnerable sectors such as the farming and agriculture sector. It s easy to blame others, that s what they do, he said. That s what critics do, they blame others instead of saying look at what we have done this year. It s a starting point. People must be saying how do we take it further. So we are not spending sleepless nights on the issue. On President Jacob Zuma, punting a state-owned bank in his state of the nation address, Ntshalintshali welcomed the news that the SA Post Office was poised to register its own financial services unit, Postbank. We need to revive the Postbank, the whole of Sapo is in a mess. It can t compete any more with mushrooming organisations delivering the same services. We hope that it will make a difference as there are only a few banks in South Africa, he said. Some of these banks are even being caught up in collusion scandals. So we are happy to see Postbank get centre-stage, he said.He said that Cosatu would play a role in the ANC s policy conference later this year. We have an interest in the crafting of ANC policies and we have been participating. We were invited to their special national executive committee meeting. As soon as the documents are released, we ll be holding our discussions, Ntshalintshali said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za