Augusto Palacios may have not read too much into the swipe Orlando Pirates boss Irvin Khoza took at him the other day.But Khoza made it clear he was not impressed with Palacios usual laments about the lack of character from the Bucs players, whom he has accused of playing for their salaries and not the pride of the team. In recent months, the interim Bucs coach has slammed the players for lacking the hunger to win and of not being worthy of the Buccaneers jersey.This has been followed by a run of poor results under his guidance, the nadir being Saturday s 6-0 humiliation against Mamelodi Sundowns. If you are the Professor (in reference to Palacios), that means that there is no problem that is above you, Khoza said. I am disappointed if he is punting that narrative because he should be the one assisting us with his experience and knowledge of the game to find solutions to the problem.If you start punting other reasons as he is, you are taking the focus away from yourself. We will end up auditing you (Palacios) because as a coach, that s your responsibility to assist us because you are an insider. You have been there for some time. So go and help us because you are clued up on the players. Don t give us reasons that will maybe show us your shortcomings. I don t buy that one.That s a nice easy exit. Palacios said he was hurt by the events which followed the 6-0 defeat, and was too heartbroken to continue his duties after calm was restored at Loftus on Saturday. But Khoza confirmed Palacios will be in charge when Pirates host Bidvest Wits in the league match at Orlando Stadium tonight, in what is likely to be a tense match for Bucs. To his credit, Palacios has also vowed to soldier on and not throw in the towel as he was not a weak person.Yet he faces another well-oiled machine in Wits, who have been in great form, eyeing the top spot. Inspired by young Phakamani Mahlambi, Wits may add to the woes of the Buccaneers. Winless in six matches, Bucs slumped to 10th in the log, a mere four points away from the relegation zone. Fingers have been pointed at Palacios for the 6-0 drubbing; his selections viewed as the source of their worst result.He will be expected to make sweeping changes, including restoring skipper Happy Jele and Mpho Makola to the starting line up. We are expecting a very tough game against Pirates. They will certainly come out much stronger and determined to protect their pride, Wits coach Gavin Hunt said.-Kgomotso Sethusha|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za