Only 5% of estate agents registered with the Estate Agency Affairs Board (EAAB) are black, Jan le Roux, chief executive of the Real Estate Business Owners of South Africa (Rebosa) representing the majority of residential estate agencies in the country, said. Le Roux said this after President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address on Thursday where he commented on the property market that this sector is valued at about R7 trillion, with the subsidised sector being valued at R1.5 trillion .The President also said less than 5% of the sector was managed by people of colour, and Africans in particular were even less well represented. Le Roux says EAAB costs and compliance requirements are prohibitive. He says the industry has work to do in this regard, a task not made easier by the structure of the estate agents industry, with remuneration being entirely commission-based which presents a challenge to any entrant into the market, black or white. The residential sales market is also not the pot of gold that many perceive it to be. Recent statistics from the EAAB showed 85% of all real estate agencies in the country have a gross turnover of less than R250000 a month. Many firms have turnovers of less than R25000 a month. Add to this meagre yield the costs levied by the Estate Agency Affairs Act (EAAA) and the EAAB and it becomes incredibly challenging for both agents and agencies to remain solvent, Le Roux says. In terms of the existing EAAA, all agencies must have a trust account which has to be audited by a chartered accountant once a year, even if dormant which is often the case.On top of this the EAAB demands audited statements by a chartered accountant of the business account as well. The cost of this for small firms and sole proprietors is prohibitive and unnecessary, upwards of R20 000, Le Roux says. Rebosa has made numerous presentations to the EAAB to address these challenges. The EAAB also instituted the continuous professional development programme (CPD) in 2015, at an additional cost of R2000-R2 500 per agent. The value and content of these courses are doubtful but the cost, especially for sole operators and start-ups, once again is prohibitive.Despite making e-Learning available since 2016, the CPD fees have not been reduced, to the detriment of many. Added to this is the lacklustre, One Learner, One Estate Agency Youth Brigade Programme, the implementation and execution of which has left much to be desired and the second phase which was never launched. The EAAB has almost doubled the yearly registration fees, now amounting to R1 200 per principal/sole proprietor.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za