After two years of wrangling between National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) and social partners to introduce the national minimum wage, a deal will be signed today.National Council of Trade Unions (Nactu) president Joseph Maqhekeni said yesterday that the Nedlac social partners on the national minimum wage had reached an agreement.He said that a deal would be signed today at a gathering of economic and government stakeholders in Cape Town ahead of President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address. The parties completed the discussions and an agreement has been reached. There was general consensus on a number of issues and we will be signing the agreement tomorrow in Cape Town. It was difficult but it was important, Maqhekeni said.His comments come against the background of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa having roped in a panel of experts to provide stakeholders from business, government, labour and communities at Nedlac in the formulation of a wage floor, below which no worker should be paid. The panel had since recommended an amount of R3 500 per month should be the amount for South Africa s first national minimum wage.The Federation of Unions of South Africa s (Fedusa s) general secretary, Dennis George, regarded the agreement as a milestone in the country s journey towards the realisation of economic transformation. This intervention by the social partners is an important event for the country. It s significant because it will address the challenges of people at the bottom, 4 million working people will see a significant increase in their salaries. The social partners should be congratulated as it was not an easy process for the parties to agree. George, making reference to the proposal that wages in the domestic and agricultural sector be set at 75% and 90% of the proposed R3 500 respectively, said that work would be done to ensure that workers in these sectors of the economy would not be left behind . The process has been set in motion. It ll be a critical process that will look at how are we going to increase their salaries. Wages in these sectors are like a sword with two edges, on one side it s a cost to company and at the other its a factor that contributes to consumption. George said that while the R3 500 a month wage was not a panacea solution to poverty and inequality, it would go a long way in changing the lives of those on the bottom rung of the ladder of economic development. We ve all agreed on the recommendation and that R20 per hour is not a living wage but it makes an impact. It s a starting point, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za