The ANC in Gauteng has vowed to take its youth league to task for its negative and ill-disciplined comments against Gauteng Premier David Makhura and former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu over the Esidimeni scandal.ANC provincial secretary Hope Papo said that the party made the decision after its leadership held its first provincial executive committee (PEC) meeting on Saturday and Sunday last week. He said that the remarks attributed to the young lions would not go unpunished. The PEC agreed with the ANC national media statement, particularly the observation that the utterances and actions of the ANC Youth League in Gauteng province were reckless and unbefitting of ANC members and the call to reprimand them. The PEC resolved to: reprimand the ANC Youth League in the province for the statements, to call on the youth league to unconditionally withdraw the case they opened against comrade Qedani Mahlangu, to call on the youth league to publicly retract the call they made for the resignation of Premier David Makhura. Papo also said the ANC PEC demanded that the youth league retract remarks attributed to it on the competency of Mahlangu s replacement, Dr Gwen Ramokgopa. Papo, commended Makhura s handling of the matter. The PEC commended the Gauteng Premier David Makhura for the openness and urgency with which he is dealing with the ombudsman s report, including the commitment to implement the remedial actions. It also noted that comrade Qedani Mahlangu served the people of Gauteng as a public representative for 20 years. It commended her for the decision to resign as an MEC and member of the provincial legislature. Papo also said that the ANC PEC welcomed the health ombudsman s report into the deaths of the patients. The PEC welcomed the report of the health ombudsman Prof Malegapuru Makgoba into the death of mental health patients across the province. It extended condolences to the families that lost loved ones and committed to assume public leadership on the matter. Papo s comments come against the background of the ANCYL backing down on their intention to lay criminal charges against Mahlangu. The ANC Youth League also withdrew its call for Makhura to resign for his role in the Esidimeni tragedy. Provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile also called for an intensification of unity processes within the ruling party. This year has been declared as the Year of Oliver Reginald Tambo: Let us deepen Unity by the ANC NEC. This calls on all ANC members and leaders to defend the unity and cohesion of the organisation. The PEC acknowledged the importance of revolutionary discipline, defending the unity and cohesion of the organisation and emulating the exemplary life of ANC President Oliver Reginald Tambo, the ANC said.Regarding its organisational programme, the province announced that it will convene a provincial alliance summit and alliance led provincial consultative conference in March 2017 and a provincial policy conference in May 2017.TNA REPORTERnews@thenewage.co.za