The delivery of services in Mogale City hangs in the balance as scuffles continue in the multiparty-run municipality. This despite the intervention of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC Paul Mashatile last month.The Freedom Front Plus has accused the ANC of trying to sabotage the multiparty government s plans of formalising procedures and getting the necessary structures in place to address issues in the municipality. The Gauteng ANC, however, has dismissed the claims as disgusting . ANC spokesperson in the West Rand, Refentse Mangope, said it was unfortunate that parties in the coalition government insisted on using the ANC as an excuse for their failure to deliver services in the municipality. Since they came into power they have failed to deliver what is constitutionally expected of them. They could not even sit for a council meeting to make the necessary decisions. They have the numbers necessary to make changes so we do not see why they would continue crying foul. All they have been focusing on is undoing all the social transformation programmes that the ANC had put in place and discrediting the ANC s name, Mangope said.Amanda de Lange, the FF Plus West Rand regional leader, said the speaker of the council is an ANC member and favoured the ANC councillors over those from other parties by deliberately allowing them to bully and intimidate the governing parties with defamatory comments and refusing to allow multiparty government councillors to address the speaker . The ANC is desperate to disrupt the municipal operations and service delivery in order to force the MEC to place Mogale City under administration as this is the only way the ANC can regain power over the city. This is a pathetic attempt and a sign of sore losers. They are willing to destroy Mogale City completely as long as they get their hands on the purse again, De Lange said. She said charges would be laid with Mashatile against the relevant people.The provincial Cogta department said it supported every municipality in Gauteng to execute their mandate, including Mogale City and would continue to do so. Since our last visit in the municipality, a city manager has been appointed and that is a big step towards ensuring that services are delivered, Mashatile s spokesperson Mogomotsi Mogodiri said.He said if the FF Plus had any issues they wanted the MEC to address, they knew how to access and follow the correct channels.-Lillian Selapisa|lillians@thenewage.co.za