HEROIC police constable Sinethemba Qwathi has been hailed for his dedication to the job.Qwathi, 28, a Mount Fletcher crime intelligence unit member died in hospital after being shot last week while searching a house for unlicensed guns.He and his colleagues were following up on information about the location of an unlicensed firearm at Ngxaxha locality near Mount Fletcher.When they arrived, they identified themselves when a man started shooting at them. A shoot-out ensued and two police officers were shot.They were both shot in the lower body and were taken to hospital for medical attention. The suspect died at the scene. Our hearts go out to his loved ones and close colleagues during this difficult time. The SAPS will provide all the support possible to the bereaved family.The loss of an SAPS member is not only a loss to the member s family but an organisational setback for the SAPS and a loss to the nation as well, provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Liziwe Ntshinga said.Qwathi joined the SAPS in 2012. I would like to express my profound condolences to the bereaved family of the late police officer.I condemn in the strongest possible terms the killing of police on duty and those who continue to follow suit must know that they will face the full might of the law. At the same time, I would like to call upon all communities to work with the police in clamping down on all criminal activities that have become so pervasive throughout the province.Building safer communities requires strong mutual relations between the community and police, department of safety and liaison MEC Weziwe Tikana said.Meanwhile, three alleged gang members have been arrested by the visible gang intervention unit at a house in Bellflower Road, Bethelsdorp. Response was immediate and as police approached the house, the group of males standing outside started to disperse. Three suspects started running with police members in pursuit. One suspect threw a firearm in the yard of a house while the other passed on another firearm to a third person. Two more firearms were thrown onto the roof of another house as the suspects ran, police said.Police said the arrests were a result of excellent coordination and cordoning off of the immediate area by flying squad members, the visible gang intervention unit and Bethelsdorp community members who ensured the arrests of three suspects and the seizure of three firearms.The suspects are affiliated to the Spotbouers gang. Two 9mm pistols with ammunition and a revolver were confiscated. The suspects will appear in court soon .TNA REPORTER