&nbsp;The topic of sexuality seems to be clear cut and yet it never ends. Is it not strange that in a world that has decided that the only natural sexual and emotional relations possible are between men and women, we have so many testimonies to the contrary? So, how is it that something so natural could be so contested? That s another conversation on its own, but for now let s talk about the various conflicting testimonies. First, there are double standards when it comes to same-sex love and sex. Women in same-sex relationships are often associated with a fantasy that serves to excite a male gaze. Men however are considered deviant and depraved for loving or having sex with other men. The acceptability of variations of sexuality is still decided upon by heterosexual patriarchal rules, which dictate that penalties for diversity be issued. It is no wonder then, that admitting to a sexuality that could get you punished has been and still is, in many cases impossible. In saying that, we should not scoff at the progress we ve made in challenging these draconian rules. People have become more unafraid to be themselves despite the possible backlash. According to the website Whisper, more married women are admitting to having lesbian affairs. In a country like South Africa where gay marriage is legal, we should not assume, as it is done here, that the women are married to men to begin with, but nevertheless they are having affairs with other women. Reasons cited for choosing lesbian relationships include better sex, unhappiness in marriage, emotional support and maturity. In most cases women just feel better understood by female partners. A US survey by the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention claims that bisexuality is on the rise. Let us be careful here in accepting of this phrasing. It is not so much that bisexuality is on the rise as it is that people are more supported and free to admit bisexuality. There is also that bisexuality is now more accepted as legitimate category of sexuality, thanks to the work of LGBTI activists. In light of the previous point of double standards, the survey reported that more women reported having had sexual contact with other women: 17.4% in the current survey compared with 14.2% in the 2006-2010 survey. And higher numbers of both women and men identified as bisexual, 5.5% of women and 2% of men, compared with 3.9% and 1.2% respectively in the last survey. We chatted to some people to see how these statistics hold up in South Africa. Ntombi Zwane says she is currently in a lesbian relationship which started while she was married. I never felt comfortable in my marriage and I had no way of expressing what I felt. The thing is, we live in a country with a progressive Constitution but in a conservative society. So to say I am protected by the Constitution doesn t mean much; people decide which parts they are going to respect. It is still a difficult thing at times, but I am happy now, she says. Jay Simons says being bisexual has always been who he is, but the pressure to choose had him denying himself for a long time. It s like you re seen as someone who is playing games and can t make up his mind. My life became a joke and something that s not serious so you suffer invisibility. I have many friends who will tell you a similar story. It really is more common than we would like to believe. Everybody deserves the right to love who they choose without judgement or fear of ridicule. Sexuality is fluid and situates itself on a spectrum of sexual diversity. If we choose acceptance over condemnation, we might just prove there is no need to keep being educated on how to understand what we can easily live in harmony with. The progress is great, but we still have more work to do. JAMIL KHAN| news@thenewage.co.za