A joint sitting of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces yesterday became a political arena of competing ideas on the notion of radical economic transformation.In a relatively tame debate on Jacob Zuma s state of the nation (Sona) address, owing to the EFF s conspicuous absence, ANC MP Jeff Radebe used the opportunity to articulate President Jacob Zuma s plan to drive growth.Radebe said that the country s hard won democracy hangs in the balance as socio-economic disparities continue to persist with unabated intensity. It is clear that freedom is not always synonymous with equality and this disjuncture is quite prevalent in South African society. The gross inequalities and our socio-economic conditions stifle growth in various sectors of our society. According to Statistics SA, white households earn at least five times more than black households.This is an unacceptable disparity, especially 23 years after the dawn of freedom and democracy. The debate by MPs on the government s programme of action for the year ahead comes against the background of Zuma, saying last Thursday in his speech that the country needs a middleof-the-road transformation trajectory to ensure greater participation of designated groups in the economy. It is for this reason that Radebe said the ANC as the governing party would unapologetically take what it believed as the moral high ground in entrenching economic transformation as black people were still economically deprived . We must accelerate radical economic transformation to ensure beneficiation of the majority of black people who suffered centuries of colonial domination, decades of oppressive apartheid rule and a life-time of economic deprivation. However, DA leader Mmusi Maimane, while fending-off numerous interminable filibusters from ANC MPs, said Zuma s plan to fast-track economic development was a ruse to enrich himself and his ANC cronies . When the president talks about BEE and the Black Industrialists Programme, what he really means is a scheme to make 100 of his closest friends and family very rich. On Thursday we heard about the same old failed Nine-Point Plan, sprinkled with a bit of stop-gap populism like land expropriation, talk of a state-owned mining house and threatening the banking sector. As an alternative, Maimane said the official opposition party would offer a rescue plan to lift a great many black South Africans out of poverty. We will build a lean, efficient state tasked with creating opportunities for people instead of the bloated, corrupt state that is only dragging us backwards, he said. IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi opined that Zuma s understanding of radical economic transformation was flawed . It s a reliance of changing the little that exists, moving it from one group to another. Evidently white monopoly capital is now the only scape-goat for failed leadership on economic policy. I believe in the redistribution of wealth and the creation of socio-economic justice, but I also know that if we shift our focus on growth and make it all about redistribution, millions of South Africans are going to go hungry. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa, visibly irritated by his mic cutting out during his speech, said that the UDM would convene a national consultative conference open to all to find economic solutions to among others, take stock of the 22 years of our democracy, identify areas of intervention to bring about meaningful economic transformation .-Bonolo Selebano|bonolos@thenewage.co.za