Johannesburg mayor s controversial decision to cancel the R3bn Jozi@ Work job creation programme has been widely condemned. I hope that the mayor will keep people working after he canned the programme, a local resident Tabisa Kiyane said. I liked the programme, it gives people jobs. It was not paying much but it was something. I know who I m not voting for come 2019, Han Sholo said. We need something which includes all residents, not trash which is used to garner votes and enrich a few. We have been poor for too long. With the fall of such programmes, there s hope for entrepreneurs who do not have ANC cards, Bongani Miya said.Mayor Herman Mashaba said last week that: I am pleased to announce the end of an era of patronage with Jozi@Work. I maintain that we have to turn the economy of our city around and ensure that real work opportunities are created for our residents. The ANC said the initiative was approved by the council as a groundbreaking job creator involving communities in the delivery of municipal services.ANC Greater Joburg spokesperson, Jolidee Matongo, said the cancellation of the programme was an attack on the thousands who were given jobs through Josi@work. Today is a sad day for more than 8000 workers and 112 cooperatives and local companies in Johannesburg, Matongo said.He said through the programme the city had created thousands of jobs for unemployed residents. Meanwhile, Mashaba said that without fail every community told him that work opportunities were handed out on the basis of membership of the previous governing party. If you did not hold such a membership card, there was no real point in trying. Each project was outsourced to a middleman, known as a capacity support agent (CSA), he said. Which effectively became a patronage network for the previous governing party. These CSA s would became rich overnight while many in our communities remained without work opportunities, he said.However, Matongo said Mashaba s claims were reckless. The programme had a number of capacity support agents who were appointed to work directly with the cooperatives and provide them with support to implement their work package, he said. The role of the CSA was to transfer skills such as financial (cash flow) management, quality and stock control, the development of bills of quantities among others, he said. Mashaba must not terminate the workers employed in the Jozi@Work programme, he must live up to his commitment to employ community members particularly those in the programme directly in the city and ensure that opportunities in a rebranded Jozi@ Work programme continue to be subjected to transparent, open and public processes, Matongo said.Mashaba said his administration is working on new job creation programme to benefit all and that the process would take at least six months to complete. He said that the city would employ directly and do away with middlemen.NTOMBI NKOSIntombin@thenewage.co.za