Teacher shortages in the Eastern Cape have been blamed for the dismal performance of matric pupils in the 2016 final examinations. And some say if the provincial education department does not hire more teachers, the few that still remain will also leave.Teachers also say that despite the poor pass rate in Grade 12, nothing is being done to address the problem.They say they are overloaded and teach too many classes which then affects the quality of education pupils receive.Education MEC Mandla Makupula says more than 2000 schools in the Eastern Cape have only two or three teachers. He was speaking at the education sector lekgotla in Johannesburg.Makupula said 219 schools in the province have only one teacher each. Thobeka Mkiwambi, a teacher at Smuts Senior Secondary School, confirmed that the poor pass rate in Grade 12 was as a result of not having enough teachers. There are teachers who teach eight classes and every teacher is supposed to teach four classes at the most, Mkiwambi said.She says she teaches five classes and is not familiar with some of the subjects she teaches. Last year, Eastern Cape students went on the rampage and burnt three classrooms while protesting the shortage of teachers.The school was then closed down. It was reopened this year but was still short of teachers in various subjects including Xhosa, life sciences, geography, physical science and maths. A teacher, who wished to remain anonymous, said the problem lay squarely on the shoulders of the department and its leadership. At the school where I teach, the pass rate of mathematics and physical science is very low, he said.He said another teacher passed away in October 2016 and no replacement was made. He claimed that pupils wrote their final exams without proper guidance and teaching.Spokesperson for the department of basic education Mali Mtima says the shortage of teachers in the Eastern Cape will end this year because there are plans to fill vacant posts. Themba Gojana, director-general of the department of basic education, gave instructions to make sure all schools had teachers.The department had to appoint temporary teachers for the first quarter. We will shortlist possible teachers and in the third week of February, interviews will be conducted. We will then ensure that in the third week of March letters of appointment are sent to the successful candidates. They will start their full-time teaching jobs in the second quarter, Mtima said.Mtima says this strategy is being monitored through regular updates.SISANDA MADWANTSIsisandam@thenewage.co.za