The birds which the Flamingo Casino was named after have finally returned home.Flamingos are large birds that are identifiable by their long necks, sticklike legs and pink or reddish feathers. Flamingos embody the saying you are what you eat , the pink and reddish colours of a flamingo s feathers come from eating pigments found in algae and invertebrates.Provincial tourism authority spokesperson Tebogo Velembo said the flamingos come and go and it all depends on the rainfall. We are in a three-year drought cycle and that is very worrying for the country as a whole. The Kamfers Dam water supply comes from a natural source, which is heavily dependent on rain. The flamingos are migratory birds, they go where they will have a food supply. As indicated, the water supply of the dam is from a natural source. We are hoping the rain will come soon so the flamingos will return, Velembo said.There are six species of flamingo including the greater flamingo, lesser flamingo, Chilean flamingo, Andean flamingo, James (or puna) flamingo and American (or Caribbean) flamingo.The flamingos had migrated after the drought ridden province left their home ground dry and without any sign of water. The birds have for more than six months sought solace in neighbouring lakes with any kind of water resources to accommodate them.When The New Age spoke to the department of environmental affairs last year, spokesperson Lesego Pule said the department was in the process of compiling a report to assess the state of the lake and what it can do to assist the flamingos.While the department works this out, mother nature worked her magic and filled up the lake.Meanwhile, the department of water affairs said there had been significant rainfall in the province and the dams would surely fill up. Department spokesperson Amogelang Moholoeng said this would have a positive impact on farmers, business and households.He said the Vaal River was this week at 68.7% capacity while the Orange River was at 48.7% compared to last year when they stood at 51.7% and 52.2% respectively.The total storage of water in the Northern Cape is at 90.6%. The Spitskop of the Harts River is at 99.5%, Boegoeberg is at 103.3%, Vaalharts Storage Weir is at 72.2% from 83% last week and lastly, Douglas storage weir is at 106.3%, Moholoeng said.The department of agriculture, land reform and rural development has also raised concerns about the shortage of rainfall, however, it welcomed the showers over the festive season. The department is optimistic that the rains will ease the burden on our farmers, especially smallholder farmers who are the hardest hit by drought. Moholoeng said the department is still concerned about the levels of water at Karee Dam, which is at 0%, and supplies water to the town of Calvinia. However water is supplied via seven boreholes to the residents of Calvinia which should be sufficient during this period. During wet spells there would be between 20 000 and 50 000 birds around the dam and sometimes even more.NOMUSA MVUBUnomusam@thenewage.co.za