THE education department has adopted the Year of the Teacher, as a key theme for 2017, which will see all teachers acknowledged and celebrated. The department said they would encourage all members of the education community to listen, reflect, acknowledge and celebrate the province s excellent teachers. The head of education in the province, Brian Schreuder, proposed the theme for this year, to acknowledge the fundamental role that teachers play in ensuring effective education. He said: The department wants to emphasise the importance of values in education and the central role that teachers play in teaching and demonstrating these values in the classroom. At the same time, the administration is fully committed to supporting teachers, in line with the core values of the provincial government. The provincial government identified six core values that drive its approach to public service which includes caring, competence, accountability, integrity, innovation and responsiveness. Schreuder said their teachers were already demonstrating these values in countless ways. He said they acknowledged this and would work to ensure that their support for teachers and the public in general reflected these values. He said he would write to schools to invite teachers to share whatever was of concern to them and to suggest ways in which to mark the Year of the Teacher. The department will consider their replies carefully and at the same time, Schreuder called on teachers to listen and reflect on the crucial mandate of the department to ensure access to quality education for all despite severe constraints. Our young people need caring and competent teachers and officials who are accountable, innovative and who respond with integrity. This applies to all of us and how we work together as public servants. We will welcome the voices of teachers and constructive debate. The department will listen and seek to apply the lessons learned in collaboration with our teachers, principals, parents and governing body members, he said. The department called on every component of the department to identify three to five actions which could be implemented to make a difference in the lives of teachers. The call went out to teachers as well. Schreuder said: We will seek to educate the public on the roles and responsibilities of teachers as identified in norms and standards for teachers. These range from learning mediators to scholars and lifelong pupils to their pastoral role and roles of assessors and subject specialists. We will encourage parents, pupils and teachers to identify teachers and principals who are making a massive difference in our schools and communities. We are confident that theme will contribute to a greater understanding of the role of the teacher by all concerned. NADINE FORD-KRITZINGER&nbsp;