POLICE Minister Nathi Nhleko has extended greater powers to the city of Cape Town s law enforcement authorities in terms of the Second Hand Goods Act, which will significantly bolster the municipality s efforts to clamp down on metal and cable theft. Nhleko has, under Section 31(1) of the act, extended powers contemplated in Chapter 9 to law enforcement officers in the metals theft unit, mayor Patricia De Lille said yesterday. This means that officers in the city s metals theft unit now have the authority to conduct routine inspections and enter the premises of registered dealers to investigate compliance with the act, enter and conduct searches and seizures, and seal premises at which secondhand goods are found in order to prevent a person from conducting business in contravention of the act. In addition, law enforcement officers now have the power to execute warrants on properties. By empowering the officers of the metals theft unit, the city s efforts to fight metal and cable theft would be greatly strengthened, De Lille said. Residents and businesses are often grossly inconvenienced and frustrated by crippling criminal acts such as cable theft from the electricity and the Metrorail systems, she said. There is also a severe impact on the city s own operations, with more than R40m lost in two years due to metal theft where manhole covers, fire hydrants and water meters were stolen. Metal theft is a major problem in our city due to the growing demand in illegal trading circles. The illegal trade of metals costs the country between R5bn and R7bn a year. Albeit with limited powers, previously the city s metals theft unit conducted more than 1 800 inspections per annum and worked closely with the SAPS to enforce the Second Hand Goods Act. De Lille said with the extension of powers granted, the city s officers in the unit can now expand their activities and act without delay and with full authority. The city had been lobbying for these powers for more than five years and had written to the previous Minister of Police, Nathi Mthethwa, since 2011 requesting an extension of powers due the widespread problem of metal and cable theft in the city of Cape Town. I am pleased that our request has finally been considered and granted as this will empower the metals theft unit to fulfil their mandate in a more effective and efficient way. The extension of powers in terms of the Second Hand Goods Act was gazetted yesterday, February 14. We look forward to working with the police minister and the SAPS coordinating our efforts through using our resources to work together to fight crime and conduct greater GREATER POWER: The city s efforts to stop cable theft have been given a shot in the arm. intelligence-driven operations. 701656 TNA REPORTER