Hamza Farooqui is one of the directors of Vardospan, whose bid to create South Africa s first 100% black-owned bank is facing rejection by the Reserve Bank.However, Farooqui says he is cautiously optimistic of the outcome of the application while at the same time is concerned the integrity of the process might have been compromised by leaks. Farooqui and his partner, businessman Salim Essa, were surprised to read media reports that the Reserve Bank had recommended rejecting their bid to buy Habib Overseas Bank s local unit because of alleged concerns about their sources of income and tax declarations. Both Farooqui and Essa are directors in Vardospan, the company that they set up and which paid the bank R450m for the merger to take place. Farooqui is a businessman with vast interests in financial services and property development and Essa holds a stake in VR Laser Services as well as in Tegeta Exploration and Resources. The allegations attributed to the Bank were defended by Farooqui. He said the bid was planned long ago and not at the insistence of anyone. Our understanding is that the application for a banking licence is still under consideration by the Reserve Bank. That is what we have been told and hope it s still the case. We were shocked that information about our bid was leaked, Farooqui said. A banking application should be confidential so the fact that there are leaks around it is concerning. He said the leaks should be of concern to the regulator. I hope they will do what is right. A black-owned bank would be in the interest of the country. He said he had written to the banking regulator to try to understand what the concerns were. Farooqui told The New Age that his record as a businessperson was solid and he was a self-made entrepreneur who started his first business when he was 12. I have built a portfolio outside South Africa I have built a series of businesses and I am a serial entrepreneur. I build businesses, I create and grow them. That is my background, he said. The easy talking Farooqui said the banking and financial services sector was not new to him. This specific bank, Habib Overseas, I know very well. I grew up as the bank was growing, my father joined the bank in 1991 and has helped craft this bank until he left in 2013. So I know this institution. I know the customers. I have a strong affinity with this bank. He said his father was a career banker for 40 years. Farooqui said it was unfortunate the narrative about them acquiring a banking licence had been tainted with malice and portrayed the bid as something just hastily put together, which he said was totally incorrect. He denied the involvement of the Gupta family in their business. The banking system is so sophisticated you cannot be used by someone, Farooqui said. SAMUEL MUNGADZE| samuelm@thenewage.co.za