WITH a number of youngsters making their mark in the PSL, Ajax Cape Town and Amajita midfielder Grant Margeman says it s a good thing for the future of Bafana Bafana.Youngsters such as Mamelodi Sundowns Percy Tau, Phakamani Mahlambi of Bidvest Wits, Deolin Mekoa and Urban Warriors Jody February are some of the players who are making their presence felt in the top tier.Tau, who played a key role in Sundowns Champions League victory, is likely to be a contender for the Absa Premiership player of the season at the age of 22. And the 18-year-old Margeman is slowly becoming a midfield sensation for the Urban Warriors.Despite it being his first season in the PSL, the youngster has made nine league appearances for Ajax and has found the back of the net twice. He is in Zambia with the South Africa U-20 team for the Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon).Margamen is not only happy that young players are enjoying some game time in the top tier but also the fact that they are making a good impact. I think the youngsters are starting to show what they are capable of because of what we have seen this season, Margeman said. There are good young players who are excelling in the league such as Phakamani Mahlambi, Percy and others. Because of that I believe the future of Bafana Bafana is looking good and in two years time our national team will have good, young and very competitive players. Like any other player, Margeman dreams of plying his trade abroad and hopes to use the Afcon to attract international interest. Playing in the Afcon is a good opportunity to show what I have to offer. I believe there will be scouts present during the tournament and if I get a chance to play and do well they might notice my talent. In five years time I want to see myself playing in one of the big leagues in Europe, if that doesn t work out I will seek a move to a big club locally. Margeman graduated to the Ajax first team at the beginning of the season after spending almost four years at the club s renowned academy. I am happy with my season, I have played nine matches and scored two goals so far. It has been going really well for me. sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi