The Johannesburg Zoo said that the well known Letaba the white lion is in good health despite serious concerns raised by members of the public.Associate veterinarian Dr Kresen Pillay said the zoo was contacted by a national inspector at the wildlife protection unit of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals inquiring about Letaba s health status after a member of the public raised concerns about him appearing underfed . Male white lion Letaba and his two sisters, Sabi and Jubba, were born in April 2014 at a private game farm.They arrived at the zoo in July and were cared for in quarantine. Letaba is the only sibling with a rare white coat inherited from his parents recessive genes. Despite his physical appearance, Letaba is in excellent health, with a great appetite. He is fed one and a half times more food than the equivalent-aged male lion, Pillay said. The doctor explained that white lions carry a recessive gene that gives them their appearance but as a result of inbreeding for profit operations, genetic defects are often present in white lions. Letaba shows a scoliosis and kyphosis deformation of his spine. However, he has had several health G-checks to assess the degree of deformation and receives ongoing care by the zoo staff. Letaba has also been assessed for pain and discomfort and has not shown any signs of this and is on joint supplements and daily monitoring, Pillay said.He said they will continue to treat him with the outmost care and give him the greatest quality of life. Letaba s distinctive coat and lackadaisical stride has made him a firm favourite with visitors following his arrival in August 2014. He was born with sisters Sabi and Jubba at a private game farm in April 2014.The trio were later donated to the Johannesburg Zoo. Sabi and Jubba do not carry the recessive gene that gives Letaba his colour coat. The zoo has seven adult lions that have surpassed their natural life expectancy for the wild and have not bred in the past five years.-Nondumiso Zwane|nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za