Former Springbok scrumhalf Joost van der Westhuizen has died on Monday after losing his battle with motor neuron disease.Fans from South Africa and across the world had on Sunday continued to pray for the former Springbok scrumhalf&#8217;s speedy recovery.Van der Westhuizen, 45, who was described as critical but in a stable condition was in a Johannesburg hospital and reported to be fighting for his life.He was first diagnosed with Lou Gehrig s disease, a form of motor neuron disease, in 2011.He leaves behind two children Jordan, 13, and Kylie, 10.The former captain of the South African National Rugby team played 89 tests for the Boks scoring 38 tries a record, which was recently surpassed by Bryan Habana.He led the team in the 1999 Rugby World cup. President of SA Rugby Mark Alexander said van der Westhuizen will be remembered as one of the greatest Springboks, not only of his generation but of all time. As a player, he lifted the Rugby World Cup, Tri-Nations and Currie Cup while establishing himself as one of the best scrumhalves world rugby has ever seen. He was the record holder for the most Test tries for the Springboks for more than 13 years and finished his international career with 38 Test tries.He also became an inspiration and hero to many fellow sufferers of this terrible disease as well as to those unaffected. We all marvelled at his bravery, his fortitude and his uncomplaining acceptance of this terrible burden,&#8221; Alexander said.The SARU President said that it is a sad day for rugby in South Africa and across the globe, saying goodbye to a legend of the Springboks.Alexander said that Joost was the epitome of what it meant to represent the nation on the rugby field as he always showed a remarkable fighting spirit throughout his playing career and also in his fight with the illness. He was a hero and a role model for so many young rugby players in the early years of professionalism and he taught a generation of South Africans what it meant to be a Springbok. His passion for his country and the Boks will always stand out and he will be sadly missed.To lose a Springbok legend at such a young age is very sad, but his memory will never die. I salute you Joost on behalf of South African rugby,&#8221; Alexander concluded.&nbsp; Class of 95&#8242; World Cup winners and former team-mates of Joost van der Westhuizen Hennie Le Roux and Pieter Hendricks has said that the death of van der Westhuizen come as a shook.Le Roux says that everyone who knew him was disappoint when contracted the illness. He said that the former Bok captain fought with everything he had. He was someone who would never stand down , he was always up for a challenge . He was the first guy you would depend upon in the team. Le Roux told ANN7He states that the former scrum-half was probably one of the most respected players to dawn the green and gold. To him Springbok was everything , and we would giver everything for it . . He had tenacity he had commitment and he was very dedicated in the things that he did added Le RouxHendricks also speaking to the ANN7 said that van der Westhuizen had discipline, dedication, determination and desire. We saw this when he had to fight this illness to the end. That was the character of Joost van der Westhuizen. One thing I must say is that Joost lived life, said HendrickPresident Jacob Zuma has also sent his condolences on the passing of the legendary player. South Africa has lost a legend and one of the best rugby players that the country has ever produced. On behalf of the Government and the people of South Africa, our heartfelt condolences to Mr van der Westhuizen s family. May his soul rest in peace,&#8221; President Zuma said.He said that he was a genius and that whatever he would ve taken on would have been a success, and lived for people around him right to the very end.His former team the Blue Bulls Company&#8217;s CEO, Barend van Graan said that : We are deeply saddened by the loss of Joost van der Westhuizen, and our thoughts and condolences go out to his family, friends and the millions of fans that adored him. Joost will forever be remembered as the warrior that terrified opposition on the field, and one that took on MND head on while raising massive awareness for the cause. And President of the Blue Bulls Rugby Union Gert Wessel also paid tribute to the fallen legend saying that he was a person with a big heart on and off the field.Wessels says that he showed this in his approach to the game as he stood back and stepped aside for nothing in his playing days. &#8220;This tenacious attitude clearly came through in his battle against MND as well he said Joost played for the Bulls from 1992 earning 144 Currie Cup caps and 26 Vodacom Super Rugby appearances , he was the skipper for the team 38 times leading them to two Currie Cup Victories in 1998 and 2002.South Africa is poorer without Joost van der Westhiuzen, a giant &amp; warrior of SA rugby. I send my sincere condolences to his family. pic.twitter.com/f8ko2SPWpI&mdash; RSA Min of Sport (@MbalulaFikile) February 6, 2017Joost van der Westhuizen Fact-fileDate of birth: 20 February 1971 in PretoriaHigh school: FH Odendaal, PretoriaTertiary education: University of PretoriaProvince: Blue BullsTest career:Springbok number: 593Position: Scrumhalf (87 Tests) Wing (2 Tests)Test debut: 6 November 1993 vs Argentina in Buenos AiresLast test: 8 November 2003 vs New Zealand in MelbourneTotal tests: 89Test tries: 38 (he became the SA record-holder on 18 July 1998 against Australia in Perth with his 21stTest try and his record was broken by Bryan Habana on 22 September 2011 with his 39th Test try, against Namibia in Albany.Win ratio in Tests: 60-28-1Tour matches: 22Total Springbok matches: 111Total Springbok tries: 56Honours: SA Rugby Player of the Year nominee (1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1998 &amp; 1999); SA Rugby Young Player of the Year nominee (1992).