When the Blitzbokke were forced to settle for a bronze medal at the Olympic Games in Rio last year, not many expected the strong response Neil Powell s men have produced in the new year.In fact, Fiji and New Zealand were expected to dominate the current World Rugby Sevens Series, with the Blitzbokke again predicted to finish second or third. The opposite has happened, as a Seabelo Senatla-inspired South African Sevens team are butchering everyone in their midst. The victory in Sydney yesterday morning, where Powell s men beat England 29-14 in the final, has made it three tournaments won this year, putting the Blitzbokke top of the log with 85 points.The first was in Dubai, with the second coming in Wellington last week. Yesterday proved to be sweet revenge for the Blitzbokke, as they finished second to England in Cape Town two tournaments ago. Senatla continued to flourish throughout the tournaments and the entire series, finishing as the highest try scorer with nine, while his overall points tally of 45 make him the highest points scorer at the tournament.As things stand, Senatla is the overall leading points scorer with 160 points this season and he is also the highest try scorer with 32 tries. The Welkom-born star is also leading the way with 72 clean breaks this season. The tournament was Senatla s last this season, as he will now fly back to the country to link up with the Stormers ahead of Super Rugby and the winger is excited to have left the Sevens circuit on a high. I am happy that we won the tournament.I just stay out wide and hope that they will open up the game and bring the ball. They are magicians because they always bring it. Hats off to them because honestly, I am just a finisher. They do most of the work, Senatla said. This is a bitter sweet feeling for me. Bitter in a sense that I am leaving my brothers. We have become such a family and we love each other so much. It is a pity that I am leaving them. I am also super excited about my new journey with the Stormers. It is a new challenge.A whole different game. It even feels like a whole new code in a way. But it is a chapter I am excited about and looking forward to. Blitzbokke coach Powell was also pleased with the revenge his team got against England, but more than anything, the mentor was impressed with how his team played on their way to back to back wins in Australasia. I am very happy with the performance, especially the way we turned it around from the first day.I was a bit worried after the first day, as we did not play well, but now I am very pleased and proud. It was also pleasing beating England the way we did in the final. Yes, our two defeats this year came against England, but this time our focus was right. We decided to focus on what we need to do and not so much on what we expect England to do. We decided what we wanted out of the game and the guys kept their focus. We controlled the game from the first minute to the last and that is very pleasing, the Blitzbokke coach said.-Mmasekepe Matsebane|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za