The nominees for the 52nd annual Fleur du Cap Theatre Awards have been announced. The awards have 20 different categories, including awards for lifetime achievement and innovation in theatre , which will be announced at a ceremony next month.A total of 85 productions were eligible for consideration. For a number of reasons, an insufficient number of student productions were adjudicated last year and the award for the most promising student will not be made. The stage was set for expressions of individual and collective stories, without which we would not be able to celebrate excellence in theatre.Thank you to Fleur du Cap wines, the hard working panel of judges, theatre-makers and all the creatives behind the scenes who made this possible, Melanie Burke, chairperson of the judging panel, said. For more than 50 years the Fleur du Cap wine brand has proudly associated itself with the theatre awards as they showcase the flair that is synonymous with the wine. The awards enable us to support theatre-makers who offer moments of freedom and purposeful expression, Distell Luxury brand director Carina Gous said.For a production to be eligible, a run of a minimum of eight performances over a period of three weeks at the same venue is required. Each award carries a cash prize of R15000 and is accompanied by a silver medallion. All voting processes are audited and overseen by the legal firm Cluver Markotter.The judges for the 2016 productions were Africa Melane, Dr Beverley Brommert, Christine Moritz, Eugene Yiga, Johan van Lill, Marina Griebenow, Niel Roux, Steyn du Toit and Tracey Saunders. Winners are chosen from productions performed at professional theatre venues in and around Cape Town. Theatre practitioners are recognised for their acting, directing, staging and technical abilities.The nominations reflect the exceptional talent seen on stages last year and which kept audiences coming back for more. The categories in the awards include best performance by a lead actor and actress in a play, best performance by a supporting actor and actress in a play, best performance in a revue, cabaret or one-person show, best performance by a lead actor and actress in a musical and music theatre show, best director and best lighting design.This year s award ceremony will take place next month at the Artscape Theatre in Cape Town.-TNA Reporter|news@thenewage.co.za