Not even handwritten death threats dropped into his personal mailbox at Parliament as recently as last week could drive Vincent Smith away from leading the National Assembly-sanctioned inquiry into the SABC.The all-party inquiry completed its final report on Friday. Members have until lunchtime today to make changes should they want to. Afterwards the report will go the National Assembly by the deadline of February 28, which is tomorrow. It s over, Smith said in an interview. It was a marathon that punished us physically and mentally. I never expected it to be so tough. I never expected it to be so challenging. His patience, Smith said, was stretched as he had to listen to up to, 17 different views being pushed and restated more than once. The hearings brought out things in me that I did not know I possessed. In the last three days of the inquiry I needed the patience of Job. The proceedings were aired live on television and took the business of the SABC, its board and executive into many homes. We did what nobody else did, from last November until last Friday we were in the public eye. When some of our colleagues were on holiday we were working. The inquiry, Smith said, was an example of how Parliament could exercise its oversight role. There can t be a turning back because if there is it will be an indictment of everybody. Now, where there are contentious issues, South Africans will expect Parliament to do the same. Public hearings, he said, also restored the credibility of Parliament. Nobody can say it was cooked up or that the outcome was decided in some dark room by party bosses. Smith impressed many with the decisive manner in which he chaired the proceedings, but not all of his efforts were appreciated. I got death threats. They were sent as SMSs. Handwritten threats were also delivered to my inbox at Parliament. Our law enforcement agencies are following them up, he said.Of his own role, he said he would not give the job to his worst enemy.About the final report, he said it would be up to Parliament to ratify it. Ultimately the public will be the judge if we did our job. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za