Both China and the US have warned of a possible war clash after the US President s secretary of state threatened to block China from accessing its South China Sea waters.A large-scale war is imminent if the US decides to blockade fortifications and artificial islands being built across the South China Sea, by Chinese authorities. The Centre for International and Strategic Studies in the US said in a report that China appears to have built significant point-defence capabilities, in the form of large anti-aircraft guns and probable close-in weapons systems, at each of its outposts in the Spratly Islands .More than $5 trillion (R13 trillion) worth of trade passes through the South China Sea.Secretary of State Rex Tillerson advised China to stop building artificial islands in contested waters, or they will lose access to the South China Sea. Tillerson said: First the island building stops and second your access to those islands is also not going to be allowed. The US has maintained a stance that the construction of islands must be halted immediately and that China s territorial claims are unlawful. The artificial islands being built by China are said to be used for military purposes.As the conflict borders on becoming a war if US President Trump is unwilling to back down on his aggressive decision to illustrate freedom of the sea . James Kraska, professor at the US Naval War College said China has unlawfully claimed it s taking on additional risk. He said: Wouldn t this raise tension in the region? It surely would, but anything other than acquiescence to China s unlawful claims will have to take on additional risk in the short term. The US is set on strategically manoeuvring into new territories. However, that is not why it has targeted the South China Sea in particular. It s no secret that China has expansive territorial claims in the South China Sea, yet the US maintains that contesting the space would be a matter of upholding the freedom of the seas, yet it must be questioned whether such contestation and provocation of war is really worth it. Former president Barack Obama always intended on resolving disputes peacefully. However, Tillerson s statement of blocking China from accessing its sea is against Obama s administration policy.On the other hand, the China (state-owned) Global Times said Trump is most likely just bluffing and if anything, doubted that Trump has the political know-how to deal with the situation.An editorial in the Global Times said: Tillerson had better bone-up on nuclear power strategies if he wants to force (a big) nuclear power to withdraw from its own territories. At present, the verbal conflict could become an armed conflict if Trump does not back down over his territorial claim of the South China Sea. Despite Trump s and Tillerson s threats, US Defence Secretary Jim Mattis clearly did not see eye to eye, saying: At this time, we do not see any need for dramatic military moves at all and what we have to do is exhaust all efforts, diplomatic efforts, to try to resolve this properly, maintaining open lines of communication .If Trump proceeds with his threats, there is no saying how this would affect the neighbouring nations of Vietnam and Malaysia.So far, Vietnam has managed to peacefully manoeuvre between the political interests of the two countries. Even though China has said it has the right to the territory of the South China Sea, The Hague ruled earlier this year in favour of the Philippines, meaning that China does not have absolute territorial rights over the South China Sea.Yet even the Hague s ruling is being contested as Harvard political scientist Graham Allison said: No permanent member of the UN Security Council has ever complied with a ruling by the PCA on an issue involving the Law of the Sea.In fact, none of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council has ever accepted any international court s ruling when it infringed their sovereignty or national security interests. Categorically speaking, Malaysia, Taiwan, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam all have territorial rights to the South China Sea. Although Vietnam and China made a partnership agreement recently over the South China Sea navigational plans for territory, it is yet to be seen if the US can sway the Vietnamese political interests in favour of the US.Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lu Kang said: The South China Sea situation has cooled down and we hope non-regional countries can respect the consensus that it is in the fundamental interest of the whole world. Undeniably, the impending conflict over the China South Sea is for more symbolic than a real threat, as it shows Trump s desire for the US to hold onto power against China, which it fears will be the next superpower.Chelsea LotzChelsea Lotz is a writer and commentator