South Africa s largest cellular operator, Vodacom, has partnered with Deutsche Gesellschaft f r Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) on behalf of the German government and Manstrat Agricultural Intelligence Solutions to launch a mobile technology solution to support South African smallholder farmers into commercial agriculture. The Connected Farmer platform, a cloud-based web and mobile software solution, seeks to link thousands of smallholder farmers to the agriculture value chain that will enable access to information, services and markets and is estimated at 1.5m (abound R21m) over three years. The project will support participating agribusinesses to promote sustainable agricultural practices among smallholder farmers. Vodacom believes that ICT provides innovative solutions to address Africa s societal and economic challenges, Vuyani Jarana, chief officer for Vodacom enterprise business unit, said. Christiane Kalle, GIZ country director South Africa and Lesotho, says: German development cooperation views ICT solutions as having huge potential to support smallholder farmers in the commercial agriculture segment through linking farmers and agribusinesses to potential buyers and services. we find that producing agricultural goods sustainably and at high quality, is key to the farmers success. Wwe address both of these challenges and expect significant employment effects. Jarana says: Digitising the agricultural value chain means that smallholder farmers will benefit from access to information and markets. Vodacom and its partners will enable this while reducing some of the risks carried by agribusiness. Vodacom s ICT services enable enterprises to have real time visibility of their supply chains, as well as the ability to engage and communicate with smallholders directly. The Connected Farmer platform is aimed at connecting enterprises, small and commercial agribusinesses, NGOs and farmer associations. Vodacom s partnership with GIZ will provide commercial and operational support to link thousands of farmers to this platform, enhancing the sustainability and longevity of the initial deployment of the service in the South African agriculture sector. A farmer can use any mobile device to access the Connected Farmer s platform and through SMS receive valuable information including weather forecasts and market prices. Farmers with smartphones can access the same platform with increased capability to access additional content. Agribusinesses pay a monthly service fee per farmer and per mobile enterprise user, who are provided with training and support. INDIE BOYCE