The Metro FM Music Awards are fast approaching and the rising star of SA R&amp;B music Charlie Mind games is thrilled to be nominated in the category best R&amp;B single.The man born Zithobile Clement Khoza spoke to The New Age on whatit means for him to be sharing the category with such talented singers as Zonke, Amanda Black, Joocy and Floda. It s a big honour. I am excited. It is amazing and humbling to be nominated more than anything. It is thanks to my whole team that I have been nominated. As you might know it is not easy when you are a new artist to get such an opportunity. I feel this nomination is going to open a lot of doors for me and my music career, the Ekurhuleni born singer said. Once again the 16th Metro FM Music Awards will be hosted by KwaZuluNatal in association with eThekwini municipality. The singer said he was looking forward to being part of the occasion. I certainly can t wait to be at the Awards. I am just a young man trying to make it and my being there serves to inspire me even further that I am finally making a mark and being recognised for my work and talent and the hard work that I and the team have been putting in, he said.The singer, who was one of the members of the Mindgames music group with some of his childhood friends, says teamwork is important and he owes much of his individual success as a musician to the fact that he still works with some of the members of the band, though the band no longer works as a combined unit. We still hang out together and work on our projects together. I also still stay in my hood in Springs KwaThema and I am big on family as a father and husband. After facing rejection and empty promises that resulted in his album, Private Appointment being repackaged three times, the singer says the feedback from fans and the music industry in general has been encouraging. My album got repackaged three times before I could release it. I was eventually approached by Gallo who were eager to have my album released by them. Before then there were a few other record labels that had indicated that they wanted to get my music released, but things never really worked out until Gallo Records came through, the Thembalami crooner said.Private Appointment is a 15-track mainly house and dance offering with traces of R&amp;B and jazz. The music on the album is mostly R&amp;B.Khoza has a five-year plan that includes among other things helping others realise their talents. I love helping people. I actually put other people s needs before my own, the singer who was mentored at Kalawa mJazzmee as well as Soul Candi before embarking on a solo journey, he said.Siyabonga Sithole