The marriage between retail giant Shoprite and Steinhoff is off, at least for now. The fact that minority shareholders have been uncomfortable with the merger was reflected yesterday when the shares of both companies leapt at the news.Steinhoff s shares on the JSE spiked more than 7%, hitting their highest in four weeks, while Shoprite s stock jumped to a two-month high, up more than 6%.The R180bn deal was the dream of retail magnate Christo Wiese, who owns 16% of Shoprite and 23% of Steinhoff, a global player in the furniture sector which owns UK s Poundland and USbased Mattress Firm.The merger would have created Africa s biggest retail giant but it all came crashing down with a cautionary statement released on the JSE s SENS news service yesterday.It said the two companies had called off the deal, following opposition from some shareholders. Minority shareholders in Shoprite had expressed concerns that they were getting a raw deal. In a joint statement, the two firms said the fact that the relevant parties could not reach an agreement in respect of the share exchange resulted in the negotiations being terminated .A trader at Global Trader, Paul Chakaduka, said yesterday: Steinhoff shareholders will also be smiling because at least they keep their positions, that s a positive for them. For Shoprite there has been this major overhang around this acquisition for a very long time and I think the latest development will free up any uncertainties. The deal would have given Steinhoff, dubbed Africa s Ikea after the world s biggest furniture maker, with which it vies for global market share, a major interest in a R110bn company operating in countries including South Africa, Nigeria and Angola.Chris Gilmour, an investment analyst with Absa, said the three parties (Steinhoff, Shoprite and Wiese) could not agree on how to allocate the spoils. But don t think this is the end of it. The deal is not going to go ahead now but somewhere down the line all parties can get this deal back on track. When, is difficult to predict. Wayne McCurrie, a senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments, said the breakdown was definitely a disappointment for those behind the deal, especially the two biggest shareholders the Public Investment Corporation (with 11% of Shoprite and 8% of Steinhoff) and Wiese (16% and 23% respectively).He said the movement of the share prices was interesting. It is unusual to see shares hitting record highs when deals are called off. McCurrie agreed there was a possibility of talks in future. They need to sit down and talk to iron out their differences, he said. With Reutersbernards@thenewage.co.zaShoprite, Steinhoff: We don t The marriage between retail giant Shoprite and Steinhoff is off, at least for now. The fact that minority shareholders have been uncomfortable with the merger was reflected yesterday when the shares of both companies leapt at the news.Steinhoff s shares on the JSE spiked more than 7%, hitting their highest in four weeks, while Shoprite s stock jumped to a two-month high, up more than 6%.The R180bn deal was the dream of retail magnate Christo Wiese, who owns 16% of Shoprite and 23% of Steinhoff, a global player in the furniture sector which owns UK s Poundland and USbased Mattress Firm.The merger would have created Africa s biggest retail giant but it all came crashing down with a cautionary statement released on the JSE s SENS news service yesterday.It said the two companies had called off the deal, following opposition from some shareholders. Minority shareholders in Shoprite had expressed concerns that they were getting a raw deal. In a joint statement, the two firms said the fact that the relevant parties could not reach an agreement in respect of the share exchange resulted in the negotiations being terminated .A trader at Global Trader, Paul Chakaduka, said yesterday: Steinhoff shareholders will also be smiling because at least they keep their positions, that s a positive for them. For Shoprite there has been this major overhang around this acquisition for a very long time and I think the latest development will free up any uncertainties. The deal would have given Steinhoff, dubbed Africa s Ikea after the world s biggest furniture maker, with which it vies for global market share, a major interest in a R110bn company operating in countries including South Africa, Nigeria and Angola.Chris Gilmour, an investment analyst with Absa, said the three parties (Steinhoff, Shoprite and Wiese) could not agree on how to allocate the spoils. But don t think this is the end of it. The deal is not going to go ahead now but somewhere down the line all parties can get this deal back on track. When, is difficult to predict. Wayne McCurrie, a senior portfolio manager at Ashburton Investments, said the breakdown was definitely a disappointment for those behind the deal, especially the two biggest shareholders the Public Investment Corporation (with 11% of Shoprite and 8% of Steinhoff) and Wiese (16% and 23% respectively).He said the movement of the share prices was interesting. It is unusual to see shares hitting record highs when deals are called off. McCurrie agreed there was a possibility of talks in future. They need to sit down and talk to iron out their differences, he said. With Reutersbernards@thenewage.co.za