THE PSL and Safa look destined for another club versus country showdown, an issue which has dogged national teams in the past, rears its ugly head once again. This is after national U-20 team coach Thabo Senong slammed PSL clubs for refusing to release players for the upcoming Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon).Senong was left fuming after several clubs, including Bidvest Wits, refused to provide players such as Phakamani Mahlambi and Reeve Frosler for the latest camp. Ironically, Mahlambi played against Amajita in a friendly match on Tuesday. It s sad that South Africans don t understand the importance of competing in the Africa Cup of Nations, Senong said. If only our clubs can understand that it s all about bringing our best players to the national team. It s so unfortunate that we don t have the best players in the national team because clubs don t realise the importance of sending players on international duty. I ll always stress this, the MultiChoice Diski Challenge (MDC) league can never be more important than national team assignments. The people who believe MDC fixtures are more important than national don t understand development. You can t develop players in isolation. You must always allow players to be part of the national team. The Afcon is presently on in Gabon. All those in the tournament play abroad and they ve played in junior national teams. This is why are struggling to progress as a football nation. The fragile peace between the football association and the league has shown cracks in the past, owing to disagreement between clubs and national team coaches. And this has often led to poor performances in major tournaments.Amajita will compete against top sides such as Egypt, Senegal and Cameroon in the 2017 Afcon in Zambia, hoping to gain passage to the 2017 U-20 World Cup in South Korea. MDC coaches in South Africa are failing our national teams because they are stopping players from developing their game. We are missing 14 key players because clubs are using the MDC as an excuse, Senong said. All these PSL clubs scout our national team camps, the players we source at Safa interprovincial tournaments, the SAB and ABC Motsepe Leagues. Then after giving them contracts they believe they own them, and deny them opportunities. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha