A RECENT spate of violence directed at Somali foreign nationals in Khayelitsha township of Cape Town, has left many fearing a repeat of the xenophobic attacks against foreigners which happened in South Africa recently.According to police reports, 11 Somali nationals have been killed in the township in January with the most recent attacks taking place last Thursday. Three Somali shopkeepers were gunned down in different sections of the township on the same day.Chairperson of the African Diaspora Forum Marc Gbaffou said he was not surprised by the attacks on Somali nationals saying that South Africans were suffering from deep seated xenophobia. In South Africa we only mention the word xenophobia when there is an outbreak of violence but what we are seeing on a continuous basis, is that migrants are facing this challenge, Gbaffou said. On a daily basis migrants are victims of xenophobic attacks wherever they are whatever they are doing. Xenophobia is happening, xenophobia is real in South African communities. The Western Cape and Eastern Cape are home to the biggest Somali migrant communities in South Africa, most of whom have establish informal township businesses.Last week the attacks on the three Somali shopkeepers in Khayelitsha s Site C, reportedly took place around the same time. The circumstances surrounding the deaths of three Somalian nationals are being investigated. The motives for the three incidents are yet to be determined and no one has been arrested as yet, police spokesperson Andr Traut said.The Somali Community Board of South Africa has since announced it is planning to meet with senior police management this week to discuss the killings of their fellow countrymen. Western Cape department of community safety MEC Dan Plato said he was aware of the reports of attacks on foreign nationals and he advised communities to be vigilant and supported one another. In the past, I have had discussions with the Somali shop owners over an array of issues and concerns. Their safety concerns and complaints, I have also forwarded to the SAPS for its consideration and operational execution. I urge communities to prioritise the safety of their own community. Report all incidents of crime to the police, support one another regardless of where your neighbour is from, Plato said.However, Gbaffou said he was disappointed with the governments lack of vigour in tackling Xenophobia head on. Unfortunately the government does not take a strong stand to address this issue and we have been crying since 2008. There is a feeling that the government does not want to protect us. Following the 2008 xenophobic attacks the government had promised to implement a wide-ranging set of measures including an early warning system to prevent attacks as well as monitoring xenophobic hotspots.However, many of the planned interventions have failed to materialise. The government was also severely criticised for its nationwide Operation Fiela. The government had said Fiela was aimed at eliminating criminality and general lawlessness from our communities but critics accused it of being anti-foreigner in sentiment and tactics.Recently city of Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba also came under a barrage of criticism for what has been wildly perceived as his anti-foreigner sentiments. Speaking at a briefing on his 100 days in office Mashaba said he would not allow the city to be hijacked by criminals who had come into the country illegally.The mayor has since reiterated his plan to flush out illegal immigrants in Johannesburg. Mashaba said action would be taken against illegal migrants and they would be arrested. He also said the government should intensify efforts to deport illegal foreigners. According to Gbaffou the same outrage which characterised the reaction to racist remarks posted on social media needs to be replicated in the case of xenophobic attacks. Why is it when there is an incident about racism the government comes out strongly to condemn it but when there is an incident of Xenophobia no one talks about it? Gbaffou said. Despite Somali shopkeepers falling prey to attacks, Gbaffou advised against foreign nationals arming themselves to protect their enterprises. We discourage migrants from taking that route despite the feeling that the government is not protecting us. In 2015, the shooting of a Soweto teenager who was allegedly part of a group trying to rob a Somali shopkeeper, sparked a series of attacks against foreigners in the township and surrounding areas. There are previous incidents where migrants tried to defend themselves because they were attacked but then the issue was raised that these migrants are now carrying weapons, Gbaffou said. An assistant to the ambassador of Somalia, Matildah Mutumwa, meanwhile advised Somali nationals to be community friendly, that their business trading hours should be reasonable and the same as other businesses and to always contact the police if there were any issues arising before the situation got out of hand.Mutumwa said that they were aware of the attacks on Somali nationals, emphasising that they were looking into it and that there is a plan in the pipeline . The Save Somali Community organisation, however, remains convinced that Somalis are being targeted in townships.Alas Gure, a member of the organisation, said: We feel like we are under attack. Our traders are now fearful to even step outside their shops. We are not sure what the motive is, but it is a big concern for us all. SIPHIWE MCHUNU