The National Empowerment Fund (NEF), which has been crippled by a funding crisis, will receive a lifeline as the Trade and Industry and Economic Development departments announced the NEF will be incorporated into the Industrial Development Corporation.This should secure funding for black entrepreneurs as the NEF s capital was set to run dry by the end of next month. The merger will promote increased broad-based black economic empowerment with a specific focus on promoting black industrialists, a government statement said. But observers said the same problems faced by the NEF will follow them to the IDC with the possibility of both funders collapsing.In the statement, the two ministers said the integration would enhance the country s developmental aspirations as outlined by President Jacob Zuma in his state of the nation address to open the economy to new players, give black South Africans opportunities in the economy and help make the economy more dynamic, competitive and inclusive .The two ministries said a task team would be formed to make sure the integration works. In a telephonic interview with The New Age, the NEF said this was a progressive breakthrough, particularly for black entrepreneurs who really need funding . The NEF was capitalised in 2005 by the government to the value of R2.4bn, all of which had been fully disbursed by 2010 and to date the NEF has approved over R8.5bn worth of transactions to 839 black companies countrywide, which have supported more than 89 900 employees.Since then, the NEF has been selffinanced from loan repayments, dividends and interest from its investments as its funds runs dry while the IDC reported a profit of R14.5bn at end of March 2016. In the same period the IDC had approved R4.9bn for blackempowered companies, R2.9bn of which was for black industrialists.But Chris Malekane, associate professor in economics at Wits, said all government-controlled lenders such as the Land Bank, IDC and the NEF are ineffective. These institutions will not be effective if there is no state bank. The NEF is a good example as this bailout by the IDC will not last forever. At some point they will both collapse. All of these institutions are capitalised primarily by the national budget, which is squeezed, he said.In a briefing to Parliament s select committee on trade and international relations NEF CEO Philisiwe Mthethwa said the NEF needed an annual allocation of R2bn for the next five years and it would be looking to the IDC to provide this bridging finance.While its 2016-17 activities were fully funded, the NEF would need a cash injection of at least R500m for 2017-18, Mthethwa said. The NEF has R208m in uncommitted cash in hand.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za