RECENT media focus on nyaope addicts sharing their high via bluetooth , has shocked the public, but The New Age has learnt that the practice has been rife since 2014, with at least 17 related deaths in Mabopane outside Tshwane alone.Users who bluetooth, inject themselves with nyaope and then draw the blood which is then injected into another person seeking a nyaope high. Most of those who go for bluetooth rather than smoke nyaope do so because they do not have enough money to buy their own fix of nyaope which costs around R30.A mother said she lost her son in 2015 after he became violently ill after injecting nyaope in his veins.The practice has reached crisis proportions in Mabopane where groups gather at various hangouts.The New Age spoke to three users who said they personally knew people who had died as a result of indulging in this trend. We lost 17 people from this. Most of them died from what we call exclusive, where they inject nyaope tainted blood in the neck. That is the most dangerous one, one addict said, showing off a scar from a bluetooth injection that went wrong because I injected into the wrong vein .But while the users believe that they are sharing a high through the injected blood, Wim Fourie, chairperson of the Youth Against Drug Abuse(Yada) said this was just an illusion. The next person can never get high from that blood, Fourie said. That is not true, the original smoker will be high but the next person can never get the same effect. Fourie said while addiction was generally hard to break it was even harder for those who bluetooth nyaope blood. Yada has so far only had one successful case of a bluetooth user being rehabilitated. Most of these addicts do not have the capacity or mental stamina to go through the process of rehabilitation, he said.Fourie said in addition to death resulting from injecting nyaope in the wrong vein, those who practised bluetooth were at a very high risk of being infected by hepatitis and HIV.Sanca Soshanguve manager Hendrik Lefoka said he had seen pictures on social media of people bluetoothing nyaope and found it very disturbing. We have spoken to all our patients about this method and so far none of them know about it, Lefoka said. We also regularly engage with the nyaope addicts through our community outreach programmes, but they do not seem to know about it either. Some nyaope addicts outside Mabopane station maintained that while they used syringes to shoot up drugs, they never shared blood.KUTULLO MADISHA