THE criticism against acting national police commissioner Lieut-Gen Khomotso Phahlane is part of an attack against South Africa s sovereignty, Police Minister Nathi Nhleko told parliament yesterday.Nhleko and Phahlane formed part of a SAPS delegation that appeared before parliament s police portfolio committee.The committee met to address a forensic report and allegations of corruption against the acting national commissioner.When asked directly if he still trusted Phahlane, Nhleko said he was fine with the contents of the report. Suppose the report was different? I wouldn t have hesitated. I would have subjected him to a disciplinary process because it s the correct thing to do. I was telling him if the report came to the conclusion that he had violated some of the prescripts, I would have acted accordingly, Nhleko said.Answering a question about the attacks on Phahlane , Nhleko said that the sovereignty of South Africa was at stake. The biggest question we should then be asking is what exactly are we dealing with here? I think the portfolio committee should come back to this, Nhleko said.Since colonisation, he said, the police have been seen as an institution of repression and control. You have a huge foreign interest still rooted in controlling the institutions of criminal justice clusters, the police being one of them, he said.He said that after Gen George Fivaz s stint as national commissioner, there had been a trend of instability within the ranks of SAPS. Now that the Claassen board of inquiry s report into the suspension of police commissioner Riah Phiyega is out, we are seeing a similar stampede on issues as to who becomes next national police commissioner. In the process, there has been a lot of character assassination. Part of this problem as we experience it is that they are also part of a broader subject matter ,wherein the understanding that is continuously festered in the minds of the general populace is lack of trust in governance and governmental institutions, he said.He said he agreed with EFF MP Phillip Mhlongo about the need to put political differences aside and begin to look broadly at the issue of corruption and foreign influence at SAPS. Is it right that the security of our state is being undermined? The issue is far broader than the issue of a forensic report. It s high time that we begin to confront these particular issues head on, he said.The Independent Police Investigative Directorate will brief the committee about its high-profile investigations on February 15.DENNIS CRUYWAGEN