GRAHAMSTOWN will next week host the annual Puku Story Festival which aims to facilitate access to Xhosa literature, educational and recreational materials. The event, at the National English Language Museum, will coincide with International Mother Tongue Day. It was implemented in partnership with the National Arts Festival and African Studies department of Rhodes University. Xhosa is the mother tongue for a large majority of the Grahamstown population, particularly those from materially deprived and marginalised communities. The festival s headline sponsor is the Recycling and Economic Development Initiative of South Africa (Redisa) which has been involved in teaching thousands of children about the importance of preserving the environment, the benefits of recycling and how to turn waste into worth. We believe that educating children from a young age about environmental conservation is vital, and is more impactful when presented in mother tongue. The Puku Story Festival provides us with a platform to mould mindsets through various engaging activities such storytelling using Redisa s colourin story books which illustrates how tyres can be used in vegetable gardens, theatre productions and multilingual shows using musical instruments made from recycled materials, Redisa director Stacey Davidson said. Elinor Sisulu, chairperson of the Puku Children s Literature Foundation, said: Redisa s sponsorship of the festival represents a substantive investment into children s literature in Xhosa, which has resulted in increased awareness and availability of Xhosa books for children in the most disadvantaged schools in Grahamstown. Redisa s values and goals resonate strongly with those of Puku which makes for a dream partnership. Redisa manages South Africa s waste tyre problem through a revolutionary tyre recycling programme called The Redisa Plan, which was published in the Government Gazette in November 2012. The non-profit company has a mandate to increase awareness about environmental conservation, reduce South Africa s carbon footprint, create business opportunities and to implement sustainable initiatives to meet these goals. KUTULLO MADISHA