Home affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has on Thursday called for visible and effective policing following tensions between South African citizens and Foreign Nationals. Gigaba said: &#8220;We call for visible and effective policing, precisely because, failure to respond would be irresponsible in the extreme as it would serve further to fuel tensions among communities. About thirty shops were damaged and looted in Atteridgeville and Lotus Gardens late on Monday. Another recent spate of violence directed at Somali foreign nationals in Khayelitsha township, Cape Town has left many fearing a repeat of the xenophobic attacks against foreigners. It is reported that in January eleven Somali nationals were killed in the township, with the most recent attacks taking place last week Thursday. Three Somalian shopkeepers were gunned down in different sections of the township on the same day. &#8220;We called for compliance with the Constitution and other laws of the Republic, by citizens and foreign nationals, We prioritised documentation of persons in South Africa to the deportation of those who are undocumented,&#8221; said Gigaba. The Minister recalled with the 2008 and 2015 Xenophobic attacks saying that history is now repeating itself and that Xenophobia is not a new thing. &#8220;Unfortunately, xenophobic violence is not new in South Africa. The country first experienced xenophobic violence in 2008, with attacks on foreign nationals mainly in Alexandra, Diepsloot, Tembisa and the Western Cape.&#8221; Gigaba reported that they led a government delegation with the Gauteng MEC for Community Safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane in Rosettenville on Monday, in order to make sure that law enforcement agencies are responding to issues raised by communities and to encourage dialogue between communities and authorities. Some of the issues that the people of Rosettenville were complaining about is the increasing number of crime that include human trafficking and the lack of jobs, blaming the foreign nationals. Government is working with businesses on these issues to ensure compliance, employment of locals and harmonious relationships desired for development, economic growth and empowerment of citizens. TNA Reporter 