Class of 95&#8242; World Cup winners and former teammates of Joost van der Westhuizen, Hennie Le Roux and Pieter Hendricks on Monday said his death comes as a shock.Le Roux says that everyone who knew him was disappointed when he contracted the illness. He said that the former Bok captain fought with everything he had. He was someone who would never stand down, he was always up for a challenge. He was the first guy you would depend upon in the team, Le Roux told ANN7.He states that the former scrumhalf was probably one of the most respected players to dawn the green and gold jersey. To him Springboks was everything and would give everything for it . . He had tenacity he had commitment and he was very dedicated in the things that he did, added Le Roux.Hendricks also speaking to the ANN7 said van der Westhuizen had discipline, dedication, determination and desire. We saw this when he had to fight this illness to the end. That was the character of Joost van der Westhuizen. One thing I must say is that Joost lived life, said Hendricks.President Jacob Zuma has also sent his condolences on the passing of the legendary player. South Africa has lost a legend and one of the best rugby players that the country has ever produced. On behalf of the Government and the people of South Africa, our heartfelt condolences to Mr van der Westhuizen s family. May his soul rest in peace,&#8221; President Zuma said.He said that he was a genius and whatever he would ve taken on would have been a success. Zuma said he lived for people around him right to the very end.His former team the Blue Bulls Company&#8217;s CEO Barend van Graan said: We are deeply saddened by the loss of Joost van der Westhuizen, and our thoughts and condolences go out to his family, friends and the millions of fans that adored him. Joost will forever be remembered as the warrior that terrified opposition on the field, and one that took on MND head on while raising massive awareness for the cause. Meanwhile President of the Blue Bulls Rugby Union Gert Wessel also paid tribute to the fallen legend saying he was a person with a big heart on and off the field.Wessel says that he showed this in his approach to the game and stepped aside for nothing in his playing days.&#8220;This tenacious attitude clearly came through in his battle against MND as well, he said.Joost played for the Bulls from 1992 earning 144 Currie Cup caps and 26 Vodacom Super Rugby appearances, he was the skipper for the team 38 times, leading them to two Currie Cup Victories in 1998 and 2002.Lehlohonolo Mashigo