The ANC in Parliament yesterday endorsed former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe s swearing in as a member of Parliament.Acting ANC caucus spokesperson Nonceba Mhlauli said Molefe s official induction into Parliament had taken place. She said Molefe also took part in his first ANC caucus meeting. It happened this morning, Mhlauli said. She said ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu would hold a meeting with Molefe to determine what role he would play as an MP. Once the caucus leader has consulted with the member, we ll be able to make a determination but it has not been decided as yet. Mhlauli s comments came against the background of a backlash from the opposition benches to Molefe s swearing in. Molefe s induction to Parliament also comes amid corridor talk of a looming Cabinet reshuffle that would have Finance Minster Pravin Gordhan replaced by the former Eskom boss.Responding to the growing levels of dismay from the opposition benches, Mhlauli said the attacks were unwarranted. The ANC can t comment on rumours by opposition parties, she said. Progressive Professionals Forum (PPF) president Mzwanele Manyi welcomed the news of Molefe s swearing in. He said Molefe would make a valuable contribution to Parliament as a policy maker . Policy formulation should not be driven by people who live in a vacuum. Policy formulation is informed by people who know about the policy impact on the ground. Brian has always been on the operations of various government policies, Manyi said. He also slammed opposition parties for questioning the credibility of Molefe s swearing in. Opposition political parities generally lack content, they are generally hypocrites. In South Africa people are considered innocent until proven guilty.For people to have their own conclusions on matters that have not been concluded is hypocritical and it undermines the Constitution and the rule of law. DA MP David Maynier slammed the ANC in Parliament on the move. He described Molefe s entry to Parliament as bad for South Africa . The fact that disgraced former Eskom group CEO Brian Molefe was sworn in as a member of Parliament today is a major escalation in the civil war within the ruling party and the battle for control of the national Treasury being driven by President Jacob Zuma. We cannot be sure but it presumably will not be long before Molefe is appointed to the finance committee to serve time before being appointed as the deputy minister of finance with a view to controlling the R1.8 trillion managed by the Public Investment Corporation. Cope national spokesperson Dennis Bloem charged that the ANC had now lost its moral compass. Brian Molefe left Eskom under a dark cloud only last month and today he must be called an honourable member of Parliament what a mockery. -Bonolo Selebano|bonolos@thenewage.co.za