The status of the upcoming consultative conference punted by a group of ANC stalwarts and veterans remains unclear.Spokeperson for the stalwarts and veterans, former cabinet minister Sydney Mufamadi, said the veterans and the ANC s national working committee (NWC) would meet at Luthuli House to continue their discussions to chart a path towards a national consultative conference. We ll have a meeting that will iron out the details on how we proceed from there. We will come out with an indication of what was discussed and the progress or lack of it, Mufamadi said.However, speaking on the sidelines of the ANC s special NEC meeting on Monday, national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa insisted that the consultative conference would still form part of the ruling party s policy conference.He confirmed that a series of meetings with the stalwarts had been scheduled to outline the road map to incorporating a national consultative conference into a policy conference. We ll continue to engage with them. They have now formed a joint committee with the MK council. We met with them last week at Luthuli House, we ll continue to meet with them again. I think there s a meeting planned for next week to further engage on the issues that will continue to arise. So that meeting is always ongoing, Kodwa said.Mufamadi s comments come against the background of the veterans having dug in their heels on their call for a national consultative conference to be delinked from the ANC s policy conference. The stalwarts rejected an ANC proposal for the consultative conference to be incorporated into the party s policy conference.Mufamadi, making reference to the expected full show of force by the ANC s top six officials at the meeting, said that it was a positive step in the right direction. We have a significant collective which is the second highest decision-making body after the ANC s national executive committee, he said.Mufamadi also welcomed the support leveraged by a group of former MK combatants to the veterans push for a national consultative conference. Some of the MK members are also members of the stalwarts and the ANC veterans platform. The joint interest is on the issue of strengthening the formal structures of the ANC Veterans League and encouraging members to strengthen other formations. The MK council has also been meeting with the ANC, surely, given these matters they do have shared interests. Mufamadi said the veterans and the MK steering committee would also continue to hold meetings on matters of shared interest. We ll discuss issues relating to the consultative conference at some point on how we work together so that we can make things happen. We ve had bilateral meetings and we ll continue those consultations, he said.Mufamadi also said although the corridor talk that Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was set to be axed had been noted by the group, the matter would not sidetrack the stalwarts resolve in their push for a national consultative conference. We choose not allow our programme of work to be shaped by corridor talk. We don t want to lose focus on our fundamental issues. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za