Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa is arguably the richest person in the Cabinet, according to the Register of Members Interests.The rules of Parliament require all Members of Parliament to declare their interests. The list released this week says Ramaphosa has 50 shares in a sports car company with a nominal value of R50, but he also has investments of R3 500000 in the UK, a game farm of R120 735 000, a cattle farm of R6070450 and 7 500 shares valued at R2 191 725 in Mondi. He is a also a director of 15 businesses, two of which are dormant.His interests here reside in meat abattoirs and McDonalds. But it s in the housing market where he has made his mark. The register says he is the owner of at least 23 townhouses in Johannesburg, owns two flats in Cape Town, and has seven townhouses in retirement villages. The list of gifts and hospitality the deputy president enjoyed cover almost two pages.He has received a Western Sahara flag, a bronze Ganesha from Indian Prime Minister Narendra Damodardas Modi, Holy Land olive oil from the embassy of the State of Palestine, and a Huawei digital watch from the CEO of that company Ping Guo. The Minister in the Presidency, Jeff Radebe, holds unit trusts in Sanlam and owns a stand and a house in Houghton. He also owns properties in Kwa Mashu, he is a director of the Mahatma Ghandi Memorial Trust and the Winnie Mandela Memorial Trust.Among the gifts he listed were a big framed photo of the minister and Mama Winnie Mandela , compact discs capturing the stories that paved the way of liberation from businessman Ivor Ichikowitz. The Russian ambassador gave him a bottle of vodka while Africities gave him a golf tree for decoration. The Minister of Women in the Presidency Susan Shibangu owns three houses: one in Bedfordview, another in Vosloorus and a third in Boksburg.She holds a directorship in Koketso Mdiba Foundation for Girls Education Development. Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Senzeni Sokwana is the owner of a house in Alberton, a dwelling that he describes as normal . He also owns a cow valued at R12000. Gugile Nkwinti, the Minister of Land Affairs, has a smallholding in Grahamstown, a farm in the same area, and a house at Kenton-On-Sea. Water Affairs Minister Edna Molewa has a residential home at Hartebeespoortdam.Included among the gifts she received were two tickets to the Cape Town International Jazz festival, return tickets from Pretoria to Cape Town, as well as accommodation. Her sponsor was the corporate affairs director at ABI Bottling and Coco-Cola South Africa. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga holds four directorships, has two huts in Mojadjekloof, and houses in Midrand and Duiwelskloof. Arts and Culture Minister Nathti Mthethwa has shares in MTN, Sasol and Sanlam, and a plot in Klaarwater, a house in Johannesburg.Among his gifts is a big Nguni bull from the AmaZulu king. Police Minister Nathi Nhleko also received a grazing animal from King Zwelithini Zulu: He owns a house in Empangeni. International Affairs Minister Maite NkoanaMashabane s list of gifts runs to almost three pages. Each gift is meticulously listed with its rand value next to it.Her declaration says her most expensive gift was a R6000 Chopard watch from the government of Qatar. The Bob Marley Museum in Jamaica gave her a calendar of the late reggae star. The register says the EFF s Floyd Shivambu had nothing to disclose. No shares in companies, sponsorships, directorships, land and property or interests in trusts.As with his colleague, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. Party leader Julius Malema names four trusts in which he s involved, but says he doesn t own land and hasn t received any gifts.-Dennis Cruywgen|dennisc@thenewage.co.za