The state of the nation address (Sona) was the day Mmusi Maimane lost the power that comes with being the leader of the opposition. He fell dismally under Julius Malema s shadow.Malema, in the usual dramatic and insulting fashion, was thrown out of parliament. That was expected. But the leader of the opposition couldn t outshine the Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema who took the protestant cake and left no crumbs.SONA was the night Maimane was exposed to be Malema s desperate apprentice. Both analysts and scholars expected Malema to walk out, but the disappointment came when the upright Maimane followed in Malema s footsteps and staged a dramatic walkout from Parliament.If Malema had stayed, Maimane would ve stayed too, observing the silence of a servant when the baas speaks. But the louder Malema shouted, Maimane seemed to gain momentum.Malema was mentored by the late Peter Mokaba and Maimane picked up some traits from Helen Zille, but when put to the test, he (Maimane) chokes under political grandstanding.The difference between the two leaders is that Maimane tries to sell a Mandela-like image, an Obama dream, while Malema is an A-class student in rumour and mud-slinging.Maimane s biggest failure was following Malema s walkout antics and not participating in the Sona activity, his opportunity to exhibit sound policy doctrine was lost by his desire to please the anti-Zuma congregation.Maimane s response to Sona was that economic transformation will not work as it hasn t worked in Zimbabwe and Venezuela.Suggesting that economic transformation was not necessary because we have the National Development Plan shows how out of touch he is with the core issues affecting the indigent in South Africa.Maimane s statement that the DA would seek to restore investor confidence by removing damaging economic legislation that deters foreign investment, decreases job opportunities and increases the capacity for corruption is a good campaign card, but it but it falls far short of radical economic transformation.Twenty-three years into our freedom and democracy, the majority of black people are still economically disadvantaged, but that doesn t seem to bother Maimane.The gap between the annual average household incomes of African-headed households and their white counterparts remains shockingly huge. According to Statistics SA white households earn at least five times more than black households.Only 10% of the top 100 companies on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are owned by black South Africans. The second challenge facing the country is the persistence of the triple challenge of poverty, unemployment and inequality.Underscoring the centrality of the economy in its resolution, radical economic transformation is the weapon in the campaign against poverty; is the creation of decent work and that creating work requires faster economic growth.Maimane s ignorance of the plight of black lives proves he is no Mandela. Business Tech is quoted as saying: There won t be any interest rate cuts as long as the far end of inflation forecasts remain above 5%.The risk of rate hikes rides on any sharp weakness in the rand and deterioration in expectations and wages. We think the South African Reserve Bank still views policy rates as accommodative but will only hike rates further if the currency weakens markedly. If not, rates should remain unchanged with no cuts on the forecast horizon as long as inflation is not fully anchored below 5% at the long end of the forecast. There will be a slow recovery, showing low potential. Private sector investment will be key to any growth this year, but the same old risks remain. The predicted GDP growth for 2017 is forecast at 1%. I wonder what those risks are and who stands to lose the most when radical economic transformation is fully implemented? I can understand why Maimane doesn t support economic transformation he is a great speaker, but hardly a politician. His wisdom is applied in knowing not to get involved in subjects like the Absa bailout and the Moody s false rating of South Africa.Maimane s attack on the ANC is a choreographed move to dis-establish the government this move cannot prosper without Malema. Maimane has become a student of a course Julius Politics.Who is the kingmaker? Is it the stridently suave coconut or the screaming toddler in the red body suit? Leadership is not easy for Maimane; he is not black enough to be a freedom fighter and not white enough to be a liberal democrat. Whether it s at home or in the DA towers, Maimane must take orders from a white woman and that is not a comfortable space for a young man from Dobsonville in Soweto.Maimane has not built up the confidence and knowledge to find his place in the robust political periphery.While he is a good man, he cannot claim to be a revolutionist. While the two young leaders squabble for their place in the history books, their political marriage seems to be a gross inconvenience.The jury is still out on who the groom is. Will the real leader of the opposition please stand up? Sifiso Mahlangu is a writer and commentatorAnalysis| Sifiso Mahlangu