As many people are moving to Gauteng to pursue their careers, the young Ditso Sekwenyane, aka DJ Toni Tone, walks in the green pastures of the City of Roses.Sekwenyane said more opportunities have opened for him in Bloemfontein than in Johannesburg and he has set his eyes on limitless possibilities.The professional DJ, who leads the professional recording studio known as Bloem Beat Records, has released his first Sesotho single track called Kgadi-Kgadi.He said the song is Sesotho urban hip hop and not Tsepe and that people should learn to differentiate between them. Kgadi-Kgadi is now play listed on most radio stations in the province and the feedback is huge. I am working on my full album but I will not reveal all the details until further notice, Sekwenyane, an event manager and promoter at Bloem Beat Records, said.He said the reason he succeeded was because he had to walk the extra mile and he did not undermine the place where he was supposed to go and make a living. Moving from Johannesburg to Bloemfontein was easy for me. I did not hesitate or say the place is smaller than Johannesburg and there is no future there. Many artists in the province made it without going to Gauteng, such as Prince Kaybee, DJ Finzo, Sekwenyane said.He said before anyone could go to another province to try to succeed, he or she must first build a brand locally. By building the brand locally you will have a lot of support. Do not underestimate the place where you are but grace it with excellent performance and gain support. Artists must take the time to plan and focus and you ll start your career easily, Sekwenyane said.He said he was living his dream as a DJ and he was determined to bring his unique sound to the South African music industry and the world.Sekwenyane said he was born in the dusty streets of Taung in the North West and brought up in Johannesburg before descending to Bloemfontein. I have been in many places and worked with high profile musicians across the country. My passion for sound and entertaining others began at high school where I used to throw house parties. This led to a career in events management and promotion of local talent, he said.Sekwenyane said he has worked with artits such as Black Coffee, Arthur and Arthur Junior Mafokate, DJ Shaxe, DJ Ganyane, Letta Mbuli, Bucie, Prince Kaybee, DJ Finzo, Twasa and Caiphus Semenya.Under his leadership at Bloem Beat Record, the record label and events company has made major strides in the entertainment industries boasting a throng of successful events organised and managed by the company.His latest single release features some of the industry s best talents such as the Metro FM Awards and two-time South Africa Music Award nominee the Fratenity s Muzi, Teekay from 999 Music and some of the Free State s best talents Castino, Sammy Dee and Thwenny Twenny.BECKER SEMELAbeckers@thenewage.co.za