She has been in the music industry for 18 years now, but kwaito singer Nomasonto Mshoza Maswanganyi has only received her first music category nomination.The singer, who more than 17 years ago made South African music lovers sit and notice with her hit single, Kortes is nominated for her maiden Metro FM Music Award.The Zola-born Mshoza is nominated in the category of best kwaito single for her return song, Abant Bam, released early last year. Mshoza has her work cut out for her fending off stiff competition from the likes of Lvovo, Vetkoek vs Mahoota and Sosha. The nomination in itself tells me that I am finally being recognised for my work. The Metro FM Music Awards are huge and it is a humbling experience to be afforded my first nomination in a major music awards such as the Metros. If I win the award, that would be highly appreciated, but if I don t, I will still be happy about it, Mshoza told The New Age.Mshoza who has often made the headlines for reasons unrelated to her music over the past 10 years made a welcome return to the centre of the music industry with the song, Bant Bam.She has promised her fans whom she said they have kept her going more of the same with the follow up singles in the build up to the release of her upcoming album.She said there was a new song which she did with Mandoza before he died in September last year. I still do not know how to deal or process his passing. I was moved when Mandoza called me and told me that he was leaving me a gift through a verse he recorded specifically and specially for me to use in the upcoming album. I am, however, grateful for what he did for me, she said.The singer said she is waiting for two songs before she wraps up production of her new album and is encouraged by the support her music is receiving in recent months. The first six songs of my album will tell a personal story of my journey over the past few years. I am human after all and will be speaking from the heart of some of the challenges I have had in my career as well as personally, she said.The 34-year-old star said negative media reports and lack of support for her music were some of the things that made her stay out of recording in the past few years.But with the recent developments she has been encouraged to make the return to her first love as support for her brand of music is returning. It was pointless for us to spend R100000 on recording an album and receive no support from radio stations.At least now things are looking up for artists like myself with the 90% local music on radio. SIYABONGA SITHOLE| siyabongas@thenewage.co.za