Parents should play an active role in their children s education at all times to ensure they achieve optimum academic performance, education MEC Martha Bartlett said.The MEC said parents had an important role to play in their children s education and should show interest in their school work and offer assistance where possible. Parental supervision at home will ensure children are up to date with their homework and other school requirements. Household rules will help to promote a culture of learning and instil self-discipline in our children. We must ensure that our children are in school every day and do their homework, Bartlett said.She was speaking at the Northern Cape Education Imbizo held in Barkly West at the weekend, which forms part of a number of post-Sona activities aiming to actively engage citizens on the key priorities of Government.The community of Barkly West raised a number of concerns in need of urgent interventions from the provincial department of education to further improve schools. The department said all schools belonged to members of communities and that it was upon parents to inculcate discipline, ensure their children did their homework, arrived at school on time and attended classes daily. If a school underperforms, it simply means that our communities underperform in their responsibilities to provide support to our schools and pupils. Every community must guard against the moral decay in our society, which in most cases negatively affects the education of our pupils due to social ills that are prevalent, department spokesperson Geoffrey Van der Merwe said.Addressing community members during the imbizo, MEC Bartlett said education was an essential tool to roll back poverty and improve living conditions and that the national department of education had increased access to basic education with nine million pupils benefiting from no-fee schools across the country.Bartlett also thanked the dedicated teachers across the country who often went beyond the call of duty. Our teachers are central to building a quality education system. Teachers often go beyond their call of the secondary nurturers and counsellors of many children. We encourage our teachers to continue their dedication and inspire our children. We are confident that our teachers will continue to work hard to ensure the best possible education for our pupils. You have an important role in providing career guidance and cultivating a culture of excellence among the pupils, she said.LILLIAN SELAPISAprovinces@thenewage.co.za