The ANC is at a crossroads, where it must choose between fast-tracking radical economic transformation or toeing the line of a toothless political party, according to Cosatu. In an interview with The New Age, Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini said it was high time the governing party use its majority in Parliament to pass progressive policies giving previously disadvantaged groups a nudge up the ladder of economic development. The ANC must understand that it is in power, it is the majority party and it is the ruling party. It must act in that reality. If it fears to act in tandem with that understanding, then there ll be no radical socio-economic transformation to speak of, Dlamini said. He said that the ANC should brave any potential criticism storm against it for veering off its middle-of-the-road stance on transformation. Ratings agencies will not be happy right now when the ANC talks in that language. The ANC as a majority party must be brave and act without fear of investors who couldn t care less about workers. Dlamini s comments come against the background of Zuma s speech last Thursday outlining his programme of action for the year ahead. He stressed that the skewed distribution of resources in the country should be channelled along an even path. Cosatu s gaze would now be fixed on Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s budget speech, Dlamini said. He said Cabinet ministers should take their cue from the Zuma s state of the nation address. Ministers must take their cue from that and implement radical economic transformation, starting with the finance department s budget speech. We are keen to hear what he (Gordhan) says, he said. Gordhan has in the past fallen prey to numerous lashings from Cosatu. The trade union federation has been quoted as saying the national Treasury was the biggest obstacle to changing the country s economic patterns. Dlamini, making reference to various Cabinet ministers being engulfed in ANC s factional wars, said that the occurrence scuppered the ruling party s chances of realising economic transformation. If we have a coordinated government not involved in factional rights, no matter how hard ratings agencies hit us, we ll side with the masses of our people. This language resonates with the majority population in this country. The land question remains a big problem, property relations remains a big issue. Programmes of action require less talk. Dlamini said that despite his misgivings about Zuma s speech on whether the government will implement such policies, he said his call for inclusive economic growth was welcomed. The call from government has subsided for a long time even though there was an ANC resolution on radical economic transformation. There has been a shift away from it. However, the state of the nation address has revived that call which is why we ll observe with keen interest on whether Cabinet ministers will implement these programmes. The financial sector has been dominating, we welcome the call now, we re waiting for the content of those programmes, Dlamini said. Bonolo Selebano|bonolos@thenewage.co.za