More than 2000 Thaba Nchu residents, who had been residents of Bophuthatswana, were yesterday given full ownership of their houses.The official title deeds were issued by the executive mayor, Olly Mlamleli, who hosted an executive imbizo in Morolong.One of the residents, Sesing Khumatake, said he was happy to have finally received a title deed. He said he had a Bophuthatswana title deed that was given to him by the administration. I live with my two grandchildren whose parents have died so this will help me ensure that they have a home, Khumatake said. My other children are married and have their own families so this title deed is important because it safeguards my grandchildren. A total of 2 425 title deeds were issued. Mlamleli told scores of residents who gathered at the Barolong Hall in Morolong that the metro was intent on restoring their dignity. These documents are meant to give you pride. They show that you have ownership of your property and no one can take it away from you, she said.She said residents of Unit 1 in Selosesha were among the recipients of the title deeds. Residents of Unit 1 will finally also get the title deeds for their homes, Mlamleli said. Residents of this suburb have been living in these houses since the Bophuthatswana regime without title deeds.About 2000 families have for the past few years requested title deeds to their homes from the provincial government, but there were challenges preventing that from happening. Mlamleli also handed out 250 residential sites to the community.She said before any person could be approved to receive a house they had to have a site. A site ensures that you are approved to get a new house. So keep these letters safe and do not believe anyone who tells you that I said or the premier said anything about those letters because the next minute you will not have a site anymore, she said.Mlamleli also reported back to the community on other service delivery programmes that she had embarked on yesterday. We have rebranded new vehicles that will be used by our law enforcement officers. You have raised concerns about this and we have responded, Mlamleli said.The municipality donated R1m each to the local radio stations, Mosupatsela FM and Motheo FM. A cheque of R200000 will be signed and distributed to the stations each year.Meanwhile, Mlamleli said an official in the metro would be facing disciplinary action after he wrote letters to contractors telling them to stop working on their projects.The official apparently told contractors that the metro was broke and did not have money to pay them. We will be taking action against this official because he wrote these letters without any consultation and permission from either myself, the municipal manager or the member of the mayoral committee for finance. So the question is, what is he trying to achieve? We will institute disciplinary action against this official, Mlamleli said.KAMOGELO SEEKOEI| kamogelos@thenewage.co.za