THE Sol Plaatje municipality has started installing communal taps in the Santa area following a service delivery protest on Monday.Protesters from the Santa section of the vast Galeshewe township pointed to the slow pace of service delivery for them rioting. They emptied faeces on the road and blocked it with rocks and garbage.Mayor Mangaliso Matika called an urgent community meeting where he noted the concerns by residents. Municipal spokesperson Gregory Seleke said the meeting was aimed at addressing a number of issues such as a lack of basic services as water, sanitation, electricity, housing and proper roads. A way forward on the matter raised was given by the office, a total number of 286 shacks in the area of Santa centre needs to be serviced but only 140 will be the the actual beneficiaries of services in that locality, Seleke said. We will start with the necessary work in the area and immediately after the process, relocation will take place so that services can be installed, he said.The residents said they wanted the informal settlement to be recognised and formalised so that service delivery could reach them. Meanwhile, the municipality said they are committing to assisting the communities to better their lives. The mayor visited the area with municipal officials and engineers to check on possible and immediate challenges that can be resolved in the area of three communal taps were installed in the area, Seleke said. We further confirmed that a need for water in the area is already met as most of the residents have running water. He said the municipality was calling on residents to work with the municipality to find lasting solutions. We will be monitoring progress closely until next week, there will be a follow up community meeting and it will be communicated to the residents, he said. Recently, the municipality was in the middle of a water crisis with several areas experiencing water cuts. Seleke said one of the biggest challenges facing the municipality is the water services infrastructure reticulation. This infrastructure is very old and the magnitude of this challenge varies per area. Some areas are more vulnerable compared to others depending on the age and pipe material type, Seleke said.He said the aging infrastructure was impacting negatively a service delivery in terms of water. This is confirmed by frequent water leaks in and around the municipal area. The aged infrastructure that requires attention has been identified and long term plans in support of sustainable funding models are currently underway, Seleke said.The municipality said the cost of maintaining the aged infrastructure is very high and the implications triggered by the condition are intolerable to members of the community.Seleke said the new municipal integrated development plan of 2017-2022 is under development and will be a plan of the newly formed council, which shall take these challenges into consideration. The municipality is confident that measures will continuously be put in place to ensure the progressive improvement of the water levels of water services, he said.TIISETSO MANOKO