&nbsp;President Jacob Zuma yesterday met with investors and CEOs of major companies for the first time this year at a business luncheon in Cape Town in a bid to come up with ways how to ignite the country s economy ahead of his state of the nation address tomorrow night.This follows on a successful 2016 of close cooperation between the government, labour and business aimed at reigniting economic growth. We meet this year under improved conditions economically. Following a period of low economic growth in the last few years, prospects have improved for the years ahead.We expect economic growth of 1.3% this year following an estimated 0.5% in 2016, Zuma told the captains of industry attending the mining indaba.The president said commodity prices and stronger global growth should encourage both investment and employment, and provide necessary support for exports. Agriculture is also expected to recover following improved weather conditions, while tourism and the manufacturing sector should be supported by the weaker rand. We have reason to be optimistic even though we are not growing enough, he said.Zuma called on all stakeholders to work together in seeking ways of creating jobs in order to bring down the rate of unemployment, currently standing at 27.1%.One of the key issues discussed with the private sector at the previous meeting was the need to remove obstacles in doing business in the country andthe president reiterated it was still a priority this year. Low economic growth and pressure on revenue suggest that the public sector can no longer be the main engine of job growth. The private sector must be involved to change the current picture, he said. Business leaders were told that the most important challenge that needed to be confronted head on this year was the scale of inequality and removing obstacles of doing business. It needs urgent action. After two decades since democracy, the black majority still remains largely outside of the mainstream economy. Social justice cannot be achieved if we allow the status quo to persist. We failed to ensure that the growth is shared. As we begin a new phase of economic recovery we have to make sure we take everyone along, Zuma said. He said all stakeholders, including labour, business, the government and communities, should not rest until the vision for a better life is realised for the nation s citizens.Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za