South African tennis legend Wayne Ferreira, who has been roped in as a consultant for the country s Davis Cup tie against Estonia, is not ruling out the possibility of working with the team again in the future.The two countries will meet in the Euro/Africa Group 2 match at the Irene Country Club in Pretoria from Friday to Saturday.Davis Cup team captain Marcos Ondruska has asked his old friend to come help with his expertise as he begins his journey to guide the team Euro/Africa Group 1.The 1992 Olympic Games silver medallist who is now based in the US, will only work with the Davis Cup side for this tie. Marcos asked me to come help, he has this great idea to improve the Davis Cup and to help these guys in the team and to support him, Ferreira said.He said it was too early for him to say whether he will be available to help the country going forward, but it s something he wouldn t mind doing as long as he understands the vision of Tennis South Africa (TSA). It really depends, I met TSA CEO Richard Glover for the first time on Monday who is taking over and I will obviously have a conversation with him to see where he is going and what his plans are. From there I will see if there is a place for me to be involved in a particular way. Ondruska believes the presence of Ferreira will bring much-needed motivation to the team and give players a chance to learn from his vast experience. Bringing Wayne in as the consultant is providing more professional experience for the players that are here, Ondruska said. They can learn so much from him as he played a lot of Grand Slams and he also played Davis Cup from the very beginning all the way through till he quit. Having beaten and played against the top players in the world makes his experience invaluable. The team is made up of the country s doubles ace Raven Klassen, Lloyd Harris, Tucker Vorster and Ruan Roelofse. I have just been here for two days and obviously Marcos and I have been friends for a long time.I also know Klassen very well. But all the other guys I just met on Monday. SITHEMBISO DINDIsithembisod@thenewage.co.za