THE South African Communist Party (SACP) in the province has denied claims that it has dumped Phumulo Masualle in favour of provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane as its preferred candidate for ANC chairperson.The claim comes as the parties prepare for the upcoming ANC provincial conference. Masualle, who is the ANC chairperson with a strong SACP leadership background as its central committee member, is also the Premier of the Eastern Cape.Describing Monday s newspaper report claiming Masualle had lost SACP support as sensational and malicious , the provincial SACP said it would not be drawn into factional battles within the ANC. SACP provincial spokesperson Siyabonga Mdodi said: As the SACP we find the story to be sensational with the intention of dragging the good name of our dear party into the factional battles in the ANC and to fuel divisions with the alliance in the province. The headline of the story creates an impression that the SACP pronounced a preferred candidate, when such did not happen and it is not backed by facts in the story itself, Mdodi said.The newspaper report highlighted that Masualle s loss of the provincial SACP support comes after ANC s OR Tambo region, which is the second biggest in the country, threw its weight behind Mabuyane at its extended regional executive committee meeting at the weekend.Mdodi said SACP provincial secretary Xolile Nqatha said that it was an ANC process to discuss and elect their own leaders as an independent formation within the alliance. Mdodi said Nqatha s assertion that the SACP would not be happy to see the elite close to leadership benefiting at the expense of the ANC core constituency, the working class, was twisted as a lament against Masualle to suit the newspaper s angle. The newspaper chose to add a sensational line Masualle led provincial leadership to further support its imagined pronouncement, said Mdodi. He said the SACP would not support any individual leader within the ANC. We are in alliance with the ANC and not with the faction. We are not in anyone s pocket. After the ANC provincial conference, we would like to see an ANC committed to implementation of the second more radical phase of the National Democratic Revolution resulting in economic benefits going to the majority of the workers and the poor than the connected elites and their families. We would like to see an ANC leadership that is committed in uniting the party and the entire congress movement and to serve the people. SIYA MITI