The Proteas excellent fielding has been key to their success so far in the ODI series against Sri Lanka.It is therefore logical to imagine they will proceed where they left off and will be banking on that strength as they look to wrap up the series at Bidvest Wanderers tomorrow.They lead Sri Lanka 2-0 and the eagerly anticipated Pink Day in Johannesburg would be just the day to kill off the series with two matches to spare should they win tomorrow at their happy hunting ground.Following their emphatic 121 run win in the second ODI in Durban on Wednesday, the Proteas were impressive in their fieldingand also with the bat.Faf du Plessis and David Miller both scored centuries to help the side set a total of 308 in their 50 overs, sharing a 117-run partnership.Du Plessis, who was named man of the match, called for a repeat performance both with the bat and ball as they look to clinch the series. We are very lucky. If you look at the guys in the ring they are all brilliant fielders, Du Plessis said. There s not any fielder there that s a bowler. It s all quality fielders, who field at point or cover for their different franchises. We ve got the right personnel and with that you can obviously make sure you train hard and then you can change games with them.New Zealand has been a great example of that for many years and we are right up with them now. While the Proteas excelled in the field, the same cannot be said about Sri Lanka.With South Africa at 118/4 and Du Plessis on 63, he was dropped when he edged spinner Lakshan Sadakan to slip with Dhananjaya de Silva failing to hold on.Centurion Miller was also dropped on 67 and Hashim Amla on six. This is the area they will need to improve on if they are to win the match and keep the series alive.Meanwhile, Miller has been withdrawn from the squad due to a finger injury he sustained in the second ODI. He will need at least seven to 10 days to recover and will miss the remaining three matches of the series, Proteas team manager Dr Mohammed Moosajee said. He remains available for selection for the upcoming tour. NEVILLE KHOZAnevillek@thenewage.co.za