Following defeats to top countries Australia and England in the Quad Series in Durban, Spar Proteas coach Norma Plummer feels the gap between South Africa and top netball nations is slowly closing.The Proteas impressed against England in their first match, nearly causing an upset after the match ended 48-48 after regulation time only to lose 60-55 in extra time.Despite a 62-46 loss to Australia on Tuesday, Plummer was quietly pleased , although she felt they could have done better. We used to lose to Australia by more than 50 goals and we got it down to 16 now, Plummer said. We are in there, we just have to learn to be more consistent. There is still a lot of work to be done, we turned over some balls but there were times when we lost the ball in the circles, so there was no benefit from the turnovers. Australia coach Lisa Alexander was also impressed with how the Proteas performed but said that they need to develop further if they are to compete at the top level. They need more control over their bodies and they have to increase their mental toughness and resilience, Alexander said. But they are pushing the top teams. However, Australia, New Zealand and England are fully professional, whereas the South Africans are amateurs. Plummer reiterated the need for a professional league in order to compete against the top ranked nations in future. And with the resources available in the country, she feels the Proteas performed well. It has taken Australia a long time to get the players paid and now they have a fully professional competition, Plummer said. I don t see South Africa in that position yet. If we don t get South Africa up there, there will always be Australia, New Zealand, England and Jamaica at the top. We need South Africa up there, we need Malawi up there. We need some of the African countries to be up there and challenging. If we are to make the Olympics, we need to be challenging and get the coaches out there who can make a difference for these teams. NEVILLE KHOZAnevillek@thenewage.co.za