The family of multiple murderer, Themba Raphael Kiniti Mvelase continue to maintain he is innocent after the Ladysmith hit man was sentenced to six life terms in jail for murder with an additional 26 years for attempted murder in the Durban High Court yesterday.Mvelase, 37, appeared before judge Nompumelelo Radebe, who was not pleased at the hit man s lack of remorse after killing six people and injuring five others in Ezakheni, Ladysmith on October 11, 2014.The hefty sentence was delivered after his wife and the mother of his three daughters, Xolile Mungwe, failed to convince the judge of the good nature of her loving husband. A person has only one life, so the sentences will run concurrently, Radebe said. But his family members said Mvelase had been at home on the day when one person was killed in a drive-by shooting on Peters Road and five others at a car wash in D-Section at Ezakheni. He was at home herding goats, he never left, a woman who refused to be identified said. It emerged that the murders were linked to an ongoing feud between the Gamede and Mabaso clans.Mvelase, who belongs to the Mabaso clan, and his accomplices had been on their way to retaliate when in a case of mistaken identity they shot at a silver Mercedes-Benz on Peters Road using R-5s and a 9mm pistol, killing one person and injuring four others. In a victim impact statement read in court, Pini Hlomuka, who was driving the Mercedes-Benz spoke of his cousin Sizwe Thandekwayo s trauma at losing his wife Phindile in the shooting.His niece, Jacqui, 19, who was shot in the head, still suffers from migraine attacks and struggled last year during the #FeesMustFall protests with the ongoing gunfire making her relive the trauma of that day.Mvelase said his own wife, Happy, still had shrapnel lodged in her back and almost lost her twin babies, as she was six months pregnant at the time. We shot the wrong people, it s not them, those are the words they said to us that day. Ever since that day Sizwe who is a diabetic has become an alcoholic and has lost his job. He is estranged from his children who were taken away from him as he was not coping, the statement read.Mvelase said his car was a write off and the family continued to struggle every New Year s Eve with the sound of fireworks and no longer watched action movies.Transport, community safety and liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda, who was in court yesterday, said the government was continuing with efforts to resolve the conflict between the Mabaso, Gamede and Mvelase families a bloody taxi conflict which had escalated into faction fighting in the Ezakheni and Esdakeni areas in Ladysmith. Violence can never be a solution. We have asked the police to continue their investigations, Kaunda said.SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO|sibongisenim@thenewage.co.za