THE despicable violence that erupted at Loftus Versfeld when Mamelodi Sundowns thrashed Orlando Pirates 6-0 has not taken the poise and comfort out of Pitso Mosimane s men as they breeze towards the top of the log. Believe it or not, Sundowns are fifth on the log after playing just 11 matches, while log leaders Cape Town City have played seven games more than the defending league champions. City, who beat Ajax Cape Town 2-0 in the Cape Town derby, have six points more than Sundowns.Sundowns closed the gap when Thapelo Morena and Percy Tau both scored braces, while Ricardo Nascimento and Themba Zwane contributed a goal each during the hammering of Pirates. Despite their good form and numbers well in their favour, Mosimane is refusing to look at the pace setters, choosing to look at his own programme, where Sundowns have picked up three more points at this point than they did last year. Mosimane is so pleased that he does not mind if his team drops points in one or two of their upcoming matches. We are not looking at others. We have own programme and blocks. We are now three points ahead, Mosimane said. Steve Komphela and Stuart Baxter are saying we cannot get there. We are three points ahead, if it goes the way we want. It can go wrong. We are comfortable one match in five. I don t think we will go to 72 points and the other teams won t go to the number of points they got last year. With one eye on the CAF Super Cup match against TP Mazembe on Saturday, Mosimane said it would have been better had the PSL postponed their match against Chippa United tomorrow. Still, the former Bafana Bafana coach said his team will play to win, but heavily hinted that players such as Yannick Zakri, Anele Ngcongca, Fares Hachi, Teko Modise, Asavela Mbekile, Thabo Nthethe and Kennedy Mweene will get a chance to play. It would be nice to remove the Chippa United game. It will give us a week to prepare for the Super Cup. Because we are working on a local programme and the continental programme. But we will not complain about depth because this will give us a chance to have Teko against Chippa. We will have Zakri, Thabo, Kennedy. Shoes Mbekile will get a chance. They have to come to the party. The match against Chippa will take place at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane