TWO years have passed since Gwaragwara Primary School in Nkotokwane village, Limpopo was destroyed by heavy winds and rain and yet the pupils are still attending classes in the school building with no roof.The community appealed and pleaded with the government for assistance but their plea fell on deaf ears. Some of the parents have begun taking their children away from the school to Apel Primary School which is in another village where pupils are forced to cross a river when going and coming from the school.One of the residents, Dimakatso Photogole, told The New Age that there are other pupils who attend the school despite its condition as it is the only primary school in Nkotokwane. My heart bleeds for these children and they do not deserve to learn in such bad conditions. The government said it would fix the school but nothing has been done, Photogole said. We tried to hire a bus, but hiring a bus requires a fee of R5000 which we were not able to raise as a community. We are not being taken seriously by the government, she said. The department of education in the province has had its budget increased by 7% to R27.2bn for 2016, but it has failed to rebuild the school.A member of the school committee in Gwara-gwara Primary School, Divian Mogoale said the circuit manager told them that there was no money to fix the school. We took the matter forward and went to Polokwane four times and Malatji from the department of education told us that we will get mobile classes but we are still waiting for them even today, Mogoale said.The department of education spokesperson in the province, Dr Naledzani Rasila, said there were more than 120 schools that are in more dire conditions than Gwara-gwara. There is an infrastructure plan in place and we are following it. Unfortunately there is limited infrastructure to build, renovate, or fix schools.The plan has been in place since 2011 and we are continuing to follow it and refurbish schools. We are aware of the condition of Gwara-gwara Primary School but there is a list of schools to be fixed in place, he said.Rasila said the list is a guide on which schools will be fixed first and this depends on how severe the condition of the school is. Schools that have at least two classes functioning with no problem will be fixed second to the ones that barely have a structure standing.SISANDA MADWANTSI