Following a recommendation to scrap clauses related to super clubs, the board of Athletics South Africa (ASA) has appointed a three-member committee to investigate the status and role of corporate clubs.The board has formed a sub-committee made of board members James Moloi, Dorah Mngwevu and Motlatsi Keikabile. The committee has already begun its work and is expected to compile a final report next month to be submitted to the ASA council at the next annual general meeting (AGM) for a ruling. The trio, who are renowned athletics administrators, have been mandated to probe the justification and eligibility of corporate clubs. The committee will focus mainly on the areas of concern, looking at key questions over whether corporate clubs adhere to the domicile rules and where corporate clubs operate across provincial borders. The above are only a few of the points that the committee must deliberate on in assisting them in their work, ASA president Aleck Skhosana said. We are concerned about corporate clubs operating under the same rules and regulations as community clubs. As the board we felt the playing fields are not level for fair competition. ASA members are encouraged to submit more points to be investigated by the committee. Everyone s cooperation in this investigation will be highly appreciated. Among others, the committee will investigate whether the corporate clubs use the same colours in more than one province and whether the name of the corporate be used as the name of the club. Do corporate clubs have an unfair advantage on community clubs? If a corporate is allowed to function as a corporate club what are the defining rules and where do they register? If allowed, should the registration fee of a corporate club be the same as for a community club and whether or not they can have the same name in more than one province. Running for the newlyestablished TomTom Elite Running Club, South African David Gatebe set a new record of 05:19.19 to win the 2016 Comrades Marathon. Meanwhile, ASA invited event organisers of events including the Comrades Marathon, Two Oceans Marathon, Cape Town Marathon and ASA Championships to a workshop in Kempton Park, Johannesburg at the weekend. The main purpose was to inform and discuss the role of the SABC in broadcasting athletics events in 2017. Among other important matters on the agenda were placing more emphasis on the new rules on events bibs and licences, procedures on the participation of foreign athletes, the role of athletes managers and agents, the 2017 ASA calendar and ASA delegations. KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage. co.za