The SABC has not contributed a single cent to The New Age towards the costs of organising the business briefings, according to Gary Naidoo, senior general manager of TNA Media, the newspaper s holding company.He made this categorical statement in a rebuttal of evidence given to on the SABC, chaired by MP Vincent Smith. Naidoo s response included a memorandum from former CEO Nazeem Howa covering several of the issues raised in the draft report. The submission also clarified that TNA and ANN7, which was launched in 2013, are two separate legal entities, adding that there was no cross-subsidisation between the two as is claimed in the report.On the business briefings, which have proven to be highly successful newsmaking events, Howa said in his submission that initially the briefings had been launched without a radio or television partner. TNA Media managed the entire project, covering all the costs, including an outsourced event management company, sound and video for the venue, the venue hiring and catering.TNA had a sponsorship agreement already in place before discussions began with the SABC based on the format of the breakfast at that time. Discussions with the SABC about them partnering TNA occurred over several months, and were driven by a view that the SABC could provide a broader platform for the groundbreaking project, which many analysts believe has contributed significantly to deepening democracy in South Africa.It remains unique in South Africa as a platform for ordinary South African s to hold leadership to account through a live broadcast with unfiltered questions from the floor, Naidoo said. Guests at past briefings have included, the Deputy President, several ministers, premiers and mayors, Western Cape Premier Helen Zille, former public protector Thuli Madonsela, the Brics leadership when they met in South Africa and business and sports leaders.However, an agreement to share revenues could not be reached between TNA and the public broadcaster. To date, TNA has continued to be responsible for all the costs of hosting these events while the SABC provided the broadcast platform, had editorial control of the events and held exclusive rights to broadcast the events live.In Howa s submission he said: Of great interest to the SABC was the content generated by the breakfasts, content that would be required in any event on the basis of the SABC s mandate. An example was the breakfast held following the state of the nation address. President Jacob Zuma was the guest, with several luminaries in the audience.This event was covered by most media, but the SABC held the exclusive live broadcast rights. Naidoo provided the ad hoc committee with graphic information which showed that TNA, compared to other media companies, received the lowest percentage of subscription and advertising revenue from the SABC (see graphics). It was claimed at during the ad hoc committee s hearings that TNA had sought to take over the SABC s news operation.Howa said he recalled that there had been exploratory discussions about outsourcing some parts of the news production. He said: It was premised on the basis of both entities requiring coverage across all nine provinces to ensure the narrowing of the urban-rural divide. Given the lack of media coverage of areas outside of the primary metros, cooperation, it was believed, would benefit both parties particularly against the backdrop of most media withdrawing coverage of these areas at that time to cut operational costs. However, added Howa, the idea was dropped before any serious discussions were held after the regulatory framework was explained to the TNA team. Howa said requests were received from inside the SABC for The New Age newspaper to be made available at the broadcaster as part of the bouquet of newspapers distributed at the SABC s national and provincial offices. This was based on the content approach of TNA, as well as its positioning. Months of negotiations followed before an agreement was reached. To the best of my recollection, there was certainly no instruction given to the procurement office by anyone from TNA Media.Our circulation team followed the same procedure as any proposal to a third party, Howa said. Naidoo said that on available evidence (see graphics), The New Age has the smallest share by far of newspaper subscriptions paid for by the SABC.-Dennis Cruywagen