The North West University s (NWU) move towards a unitary institution took shape as rectors from all the three campuses wished students a fruitful 2017.Acting campus rectors of both the Potchefstroom and Vaal Triangle campuses, Prof Fika Janse van Rensburg and Prof Linda du Plessis, joined their Mahikeng counterpart Prof Mashudu Davhana-Maselesele at the official opening of the Mafikeng campus.The occasion drew a large number of students, community and university council officials. As part of the university s tradition, outstanding students from last year s first years were honoured.The three rectors handed over the awards that are meant to encourage new students to work hard and have a bright start to their academic journey.In her address, Prof Davhana-Maselesele said the presence of leaders from the Potchefstroom and Vaal campuses was a sign that NWU was moving towards the envisaged unitary institution it should be. She bemoaned the difficult 2016 academic year that almost scuppered the entire year s learning calendar but was optimistic that 2017 will be a different experience. The campus is proud to be where it is today despite many negative challenges that affected us last year. The experiences of 2016 left us with many scars especially because of the #FeesMustFall crunch which took all South African universities by storm. The start of 2016 was not smooth sailing and we all know how it turned out. However, without putting emphasis on that, as a campus we managed to complete the 2016 academic year successfully and on January 15, we again had the privilege of welcoming new first years from across the country, she said.In the arson that ensued during the #FeesMustFall protests, the university lost property worth about R85m. The administration block, the science centre and many other buildings were set alight at the height of the protests.The university had to be closed for almost two months and students had to do a crash programme to catch up with the syllabus. Despite severe financial challenges we are experiencing as a university, we managed to reach our target for first year students intake. For this I want to thank all staff members and various stakeholders of the campus for their unwavering support and commitment, Davhana-Maselesele said.First-year students present at the official opening said they looked forward to the new challenges in their quest for tertiary qualifications.The NWU seeks to synchronise its academic and administrative departments to create a lean structure that applies to all stakeholders. At present, the three campuses have been semi-autonomous and had distinct departments that each ran their own curriculam.When fully implemented, the new structure will do away with rectors. They will also have a one dean, one faculty set up so the same programmes are run across all campuses.ELFAS TORERAI|elfast@thenewage.co.za