Athletics SA have resolved to tighten their rules to curb possible abuse by athletes representatives at events.This after the athletics body learned that some of the events have been accepting foreign athletes without proper clearance or permission in accordance with IAAF resolutions. This practice often leaves ASA with the unenviable task of dealing with stranded athletes, who are left to fend for themselves in a foreign country. ASA has found itself dealing with athletes who were brought into the country without our knowledge to compete, but get abandoned by the very people who brought them into the country, ASA president Aleck Skhosana said. These foreign athletes then find their way to ASA offices seeking help to return to the home countries. We are now tightening all rules around that to protect the athlete, the race organisers and ASA. You can no longer bring an athlete into South Africa without clearance from their country and permission from ASA. We are also tightening rules to curb abuse by people who act as agents or athletes representatives at events. Such people may no longer receive money on behalf of athletes unless the athlete signs off that right to suit such an arrangement. Skhosana, addressing an ASA workshop in Johannesburg, also emphasised that foreign athletes may no longer come to South Africa and run in the colours of a local club. Instead, he said, such athletes will run in the registered colours and banner of their own club in their home country, once all procedures had been met. To monitor that race organisers abide by the rules, an ASA competitions delegate will now be hosted by the race organiser at each designated race or athletics event. Ethiopia s Asefa Negewo made history by breaking the time set in South Africa, previously held by David Tsebe (2:09:50), when he won the 2016 Cape marathon. Also of great interest was the topic of bibs and race numbers which were discussed at length by the participants as delegates either requested clarity or offered suggestions to improve the new rules. We will continue to host consultation sessions as the need arises, in order to allow all role players to stay on the same wavelength. This approach helps to improve the governance of athletics in the country as we continue to seek the highest performance of athletes and a working environment, Skhosana said. KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@ thenewage. co.za