Outgoing African Union chair Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma has described the US ban on refugees and immigrants from seven countries as one of the greatest challenges and tests to our unity and solidarity .Speaking to African leaders on Monday Zuma asked why the very country to whom our people were taken as slaves during the trans-Atlantic slave trade, has now decided to ban refugees from some of our countries. On Friday, January 27, US President Donald Trump signed an executive order temporarily ceasing entry to the US for nationals of seven predominantly Muslim countries, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.The order also suspended the entire US refugee programme for 120 days and indefinitely blocked all refugees from Syria from entering the US. African leaders aren t alone in seeing the ban as a test of unity and solidarity.Others see growing anti-Muslim sentiment as a rallying point for solidarity between different religious groups, with American Jews questioning the terrible irony of the bill being signed on Holocaust Remembrance Day.IPS spoke with Fadi Hallisso, a former Jesuit formerly from Syria and Said Sabir Ibrahimi, who was born in Afghanistan and is involved in interfaith solidarity events between Jewish and Muslim people living in New York.Hallisso, is the co-founder of Basmeh and Zeitooneh a Syrian NGO, whose five founders include three Christians. Our work in Turkey and Lebanon is almost 100% with Muslim Syrians, Hallisso said. I think working hand in hand with different people from different religious backgrounds is what we need right now. Religion is a powerful tool but instead of using it for destruction and hatred, we are going to use it to build bridges between different communities to pave the way towards a better community for our kids, he said.Trump s order also says once the US refugee programme resumes it will prioritise claims from religious minorities prompting some to believe that Christian refugees from these Muslim majority countries will be prioritised. However Hallisso, himself a Syrian Christian, disagreed that in the case of Syria, Christians are more persecuted than Muslims. We are all human beings suffering from an impossible situation that we wish to have an end to soon, he said.He described the women s marches the day after Trump s inauguration as an important act of solidarity. I wish we can, in the coming few months and years, expand this solidarity to become a global solidarity movement, he said. If the people of goodwill do not work together then the bad guys will have the last say. SaidSabir Ibrahimi, who was born in Afghanistan and now lives in New York said he has seen a growing movement of people of different backgrounds in the US bridging divides. Ibrahimi is part of a group which organises interfaith solidarity events between Jewish and Muslim people living in New York. We sense open Islamaphobia and subtle anti-semitism not to mention the anti-women rhetoric and more, Ibrahimi said. The good news is that some Muslim-Jewish and other faith or non-faith groups have come together to voice their concerns about this whole chaotic policy shift and we have witnessed these groups showing up in protests in large crowds across the country, in unprecedented ways, probably since the 1960s during the Vietnam war. Meanwhile, the White House has also been criticised for failing to mention Jewish people in its statement issued on Holocaust Memorial Day. I think it s so bizarre to talk about the Holocaust and not mention Jewish people, Ibrahimim said. It was the Jewish people who had suffered the most during those horrific times of World War Two. He said that people were drawing connections and associating significance with the marginalisation of minorities in Nazi Germany and the events unfolding in the US.For some American Jews, it was no coincidence that the dramatic change in US immigration policy was announced on Holocaust Remembrance Day: Jeremy Ben-Ami, president of the Liberal Jewish advocacy group, J Street, said that it was a terrible irony that Trump signed the order on International Holocaust Remembrance Day. The fact that Trump s order appears designed to specifically limit the entry of Muslims evokes horrible memories among American Jews of the shameful period leading up to World War Two, when the US failed to provide a safe haven for the vast majority of Jews in Europe trying to escape Nazi persecution, Ben-Ami said.Meanwhile, former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright said on Twitter on Wednesday she was ready to register as a Muslim in response to Trump s proposed Muslim Registry, which has not yet been enacted. I was raised Catholic, became Episcopalian and found out later my family was Jewish. I stand ready to register as a Muslim in #solidarity, Albright said, who came to the US from Czechoslovakia as a refugee.Hallisso expressed dismay that the US, a country built on immigration and built by immigrants escaping religious persecution in Europe , has begun portraying all immigrants and refugees as potential terrorists . IPS Lyndal Rowlands is an IPS correspondent