The failure rate of black economic empowerment (BEE) projects in the agricultural sector is alarmingly high, but a citrus project in the Upper Olifants River Valley near Citrusdal in the Western Cape has proved to be an exception.Cedar Citrus, a BEE citrus export company established in 1999, started making a profit in 2010, paid off its startup loan to the Industrial Development Council in 2012 and is now expanding its operations with the purchase of additional land. During 2015 the company exported 1 500 tons of citrus from their production unit of 36ha, realising a total turnover of R12m for the year.The company is a joint venture between 32 farm workers and ALG Estates, their employer and a family operation of six farms producing some 18000 tons of citrus a year mostly for export, with each party owning 50%. In their next move towards more financial independence the workers jointly decided to plough back their profits and extended their operations by purchasing additional farmland to plant more citrus for the export market.An additional 92ha of adjacent farmland has therefore been purchased on which new citrus orchards will be established. Constant mentorship combined with in-house training and being part of an established value-adding export chain are the necessary ingredients for success in an operation such as this, Gerrit van der Merwe, CEO of ALG Estates, said. Cedar Citrus is managed as one of our production units that receives continual expert external advice from professional entomologists and horticulturalists specialised in citrus management.This is essential for pest and disease control as well as general orchard health. We also handle all their admin such as human resources, financial administration and record keeping. External chartered accountants audit the company annually. All 32 shareholders are furthermore employed in our various operations such as production, processing, packaging, marketing and general administration.Three of the shareholders occupy middle management positions while two are directors with executive powers. This ensures that they grow with our own operation and establish their own independence. Over the last few years the company s patch of 36ha coincidentally turned out to be the most lucrative of all the production units on our farms. They produce mostly popular soft citrus varieties such as Morr and Orr as well as navels, which are exported to North America, Europe and sold locally to Woolworths. We are especially pleased that the 32 shareholders jointly decided to waive their profit payouts from the company and rather reinvest it in the expansion of their own operation, Van der Merwe said. The first phase of the company s extension on the newly acquired land will be to plant 20ha of new popular varieties for the export market. This necessitates infrastructure such as a farm shed, farm manager housing on site, electricity, drainage, water supply and a pump house to irrigate the new orchards.It takes five years for a newly established citrus orchard to get into full production and ten years to make a profit on the initial capital outlay. The Western Cape government awarded Cedar Citrus good performance over the years with inter alia a sprayer, four crate wagons, a trailer and a brand new John Deer tractor.-Sello Rabothata|sellor@thenewage.co.za