THE department of human settlements has set aside R23m to build houses for people living on farms in Volksrust and surrounding areas. The prioritised beneficiaries of the houses include the elderly, orphans, child-headed households and people with disabilities. Volksrust is located in the Pixley ka Isaka Seme local municipality under the Gert Sibande district municipality. Among the identified legal beneficiaries of the shelters is Mprofite Khumalo, 51, on the Thuthukane Farm near Volksrust. Khumalo, whose RDP house is nearly completed, has been living in a rusty shack for years after he lost his job as farm worker. He said the shack was already putting his life at risk, especially when it rained. I am grateful to the department for thinking about impoverished people like me. I am glad because my life will never be the same in terms of a house although still living on the farm. All I am waiting for is to move into the shelter when it is completed. I will surely take care of the shelter because I have always been wishing for this as part of the benefits from our hard-earned democracy, Khumalo said. Provincial human settlements spokesperson Freddy Ngobe said the construction of shelters on the farms and rural areas was part of the provincial government s commitments of living up to its mandate of ensuring that its citizens were housed. Ngobe said the department would continue with the service delivery programme in other municipalities. The department budgeted R23m to construct 202 people s housing process units in the area to develop and offer rural and farm dwellers an opportunity to live in decent and sustainable houses. Of the 202 units planned to be built in the area, 74 units have been completed, 103 are at a roof level and 17 at wall plate. More than 8 200 RDP houses have been planned to be delivered and 4045 sites serviced this financial year, Ngobe said. He said the construction of houses by the government was also playing a vital role in eliminating the creation of informal settlements which had a serious contribution in hindering the government s mission to speed up the provision of viable services as planned. Ngobe said the department was also discouraging land invasion as another issue disturbing sustainable development. FRANCE NYAKA