A WHOLE new world has been opened up for many rural school children following the hand over of a cyberlab to Mancam Junior Secondary School in Mqanduli this week.With thousands of pupils still with no access to resources including libraries and other learning material, the cyberlab, which includes 26 tablets with free access to educational sites and configured router, is set to assist.Mobile communications company Vodacom and the communications department provided the e-learning solution which offers free internet access to education content for pupils in Grades 8-12 in the Eastern Cape.Vodacom Eastern Cape business s Sydney Shamase said that digital education played a critical role in tackling problems with which the country s education system is confronted. Vodacom realises the importance of technology, especially mobile broadband and digital education services, in transforming the delivery of education, addressing challenges and creating a platform for South Africa to leapfrog its education evolution process, he said.The school received 26 tablets, one tablet-charging trolley, one laptop, one projector, one interactive whiteboard, one server, one configured router, Wi-Fi and installation of the equipment and training.The e-learning solution is value at R130 000 and offers free internet access to education content for pupils. Shamase said: Our aim is to use technology to help make a difference in the communities where our customers live. Through this initiative, Vodacom seeks to enable pupils with ICT tools and free internet connectivity. Supporting education is a key focus. This project reflects our commitment to weigh in on and help improve the standard and quality of education in our country, he said. He said the initiative would assist in boosting literacy rates and in skills development in disadvantaged areas. Access to reading material is a major challenge in South Africa. As many people do not have access to libraries and reading material, Vodacom, together with its partners, believe we can help address this challenge by broadening access to literacy. This project reflects our commitment to weigh in on and help improve the standard and quality of education in our country, Shamase said.The cyberlab was officially launched by Deputy Minister of Communications Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams at the school yesterday.As part of the back-to-school campaign, Ndabeni-Abrahams handed over school furniture, and uniforms to pupils from impoverished households. This forms part of government s ongoing back-to-school campaign, which will culminate in an NDP 2030 Back to School Imbizo week at the end of February. This programme follows on the Deputy Minister of Communications visit in July last year, when she committed to return to the school during the back-to-school programme to respond to identified needs and demonstrate the available opportunities in the communications sector, the department said. The deputy minister was joined by sector entities who showcased available career and bursary opportunities. 701233TNA Reporter 