Highlands Park director Sinky Mnisi has urged Ekurhuleni municipality to stop joking and keep its promise to upgrade Makhulong Stadium to meet the PSL s required standard.Mnisi said it was an open secret that the stadium in Tembisa was below standard and was costing the Lions of the North a fortune to host games as they spent more on security during matches among other things.The municipality pledged in June last year to support the club and upgrade the stadium.Eight months later nothing has been done to ensure the club remains in Tembisa.If the situation does not change, the club might be forced to move the team elsewhere, which Mnisi said would be painful.He said the existence of the team had not only brought professional football to the township, but it came with economic spin-offs. It has been a very good experience and we are very proud with our co-directors when we see people selling during matches.That s why we are still asking Ekurhuleni municipality to stop joking and come to the party, Mnisi said. We ve been begging, literally and people don t seem to listen. It s not our call but we need to make sure that we comply with PSL standards, if we don t we are going to be forced to move out. If a decision is taken that no gamesshould be played here we will have no option but to move out. We have played our part, we can t do more than what we have done. We brought football to the dusty streets of Tembisa, we are supporting the team. Let them also come on board by upgrading the stadium. Mnisi believes if the club was to move away from Ekurhuleni, people would not only be starved of football but it would also mean some people are not able to provide for their families. Vendors here are making a living by selling and other people let supporters park cars in their own yards for money. Even inside the stadium they are selling and there are security guards that we have employed. The taxi business is booming and when we are playing people come and sleep at the hotels. The municipality spokesperson, Themba Gadebe, denied the accusations levelled at them. It s not true that we are not doing anything to upgrade the stadium. We can confirm that there are contractors working to ensure that the stadium meets the standards. We were supposed to finish the renovations by December but were there delays due to unforeseen challenges. The directors are aware of that. Yesterday, the club donated sports equipment to three schools in Tembisa, Winnie Mandela Secondary School, Zitikeni Secondary School and Thuto Ke Matla Secondary School.SITHEMBISO DINDI sithembisod@thenewage.co.za