Free State writer Tiisetso Thiba s mission is to promote and preserve his mother tongue, Setswana.With two books already under his belt, the 31-year-old writer, who is also a poet, says he wants to write books that will still tell a story in years to come. My intention is to write books that will still tell a story even after three decades. It would please me to see Setswana speakers write in their mother tongue and read Setswana books to their children. That will encourage this generation to pass on the skill to upcoming generations through literacy activities that would continue to promote Setswana, Thiba said.The first book was an anthology of poetry called Let s Take A Walk Mama published in 2015.His second book is a Setswana novel Tlhabane Ya Makgowa which will be launched next week at the Windmill Casino along with the new book of Khumo Seane from Taung called Konyana.These two books are to be published by Charmza Literary Club, owned by Charmaine Mrwebi.Tlhabane Ya Makgowa takes us on a journey with a young woman who comes from Phaposane near Ganyesa and goes to Rustenburg to find work.But things don t go as planned and she needs to return to her home. My novel talks about real life stories of people who can t tell their own stories. In this way I help them to preserve their identity as well as their teachings for the next generation, Thiba said.Thiba says his biggest inspiration was his Setswana teacher in high school because he taught the language very well and made it easy for pupils to understand it. As I grow in writing and reading, I read more Setswana books written by great Setswana writers. He says when the time is right, his poetry will also be written and recited in Setswana.He believes that soon enough more writers will emerge and publish their books to restore African languages. To write in my mother tongue is much easier compared to English. Because I think, dream and see things in Setswana. Before, I had to translate them into English, he said.Thiba is not only a writer but also a communications officer. I m a sport fanatic and every three months I organise a fun walk with my friends. This is to encourage community members to be active in fitness and sporting activities and eliminate illnesses, obesity, hypertension, stress and strive for a healthier life. I am a runner and I participate in various races. I recently donated school shoes to six primary schools in Ganyesa with the help of my friends. We are planning to continue donating shoes to school shoe projects and extend the project to surrounding areas, Thiba said.International Readers Day was celebrated on Tuesday with the theme, Towards Sustainable Future through Multilingual Education.This theme is in line with Sustainable Development Goal 4 on education of the 2030 Agenda and emphasises the importance of appropriate languages of instruction, usually mother tongues, in the early years of schooling.GRACE BOLOWANAprovinces@thenewage.co.za