South Africa s key manufacturing indicator, the Absa Purchasing Managers Index (PMI), started this year on a high note, with growth output, new sales orders, employment index and business activity index all gaining momentum.This positive local economic data following hot on the heels of the trade data published on Tuesday with SA recording a large trade surplus in December 2016 of R12.04bn. More positive data on the economic front will suggest that GDP growth is likely to accelerate in the first quarter of 2017.The PMI is an indicator of the economic health of the manufacturing sector. The PMI is based on five major indicators: new orders, inventory levels, production, supplier deliveries and the employment environment. According to the latest Absa PMI data for January, the index rose 50.9, up from 46.7 in December.This was the first time since July 2016 that the index edged above the neutral 50-point mark, suggesting that the sector started the year on a relatively solid footing. The rise in the headline PMI was supported by four of the five underlying sub-components increasing in January compared to December 2016, with new sales orders index managing to remain above the neutral 50-point mark for a third straight month. The sustained uptick in orders filtered through to higher output levels, it was reported. Further, the business activity index rose to 52.7 the best level since June 2016.The employment index also improved. However, the latter remained below the neutral 50-point mark for a fifth month. The January survey data showed output being buoyed by new orders growing at the strongest pace since December, as a result, the index measuring expected business conditions in six months time surged to 70.3 the best level since early 2010 from 53.2 points in December. Manufacturers targeting the export market may expect to benefit from an uptick in global demand, as reflected by the sustained high levels of PMI readings in the US, Europe and to a lesser extent China, Miyelani Maluleke, economist at Barclays, said.Domestically, demand from the recovering agriculture sector may improve through 2017, although consumer spending is likely to remain under pressure, he said. SA s current account deficit widened to R176bn, or 4.1% of GDP, in the third quarter of 2016. Investec group economist Kamilla Kaplan said that there is scope for the trade deficit to remain relatively contained in 2017, as domestic economic activity is expected to recover and that there is scope for export growth to strengthen, in line with the expected lift in global trade momentum.-Bernard Sathekge|bernards@thenewage.co.za