AFTER a chaotic start, President Jacob Zuma finally delivered his state of the nation address (Sona) more than an hour later than scheduled. The official opposition, the DA, left Parliament amid jeers from the ANC shortly after the EFF was physically ejected from the Chamber. Another MP, Willie Madisha of Cope, was the first to be told to leave. The night was also marred by swearing amid accusations that DA leader Mmusi Maimane was a racist and pepper spray being used in the public gallery. Before Zuma could speak as scheduled at 7pm, EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu began a stratagem of filibustering. Shivambu, who was later supported by party leader Julius Malema, alleged that 21 SAPS members had joined the Parliamentary Protection Services. The intention was that they would arrest EFF members, he said. They even have cable ties with which they want to tie down EFF members. Shivambu claimed that they also have injections with which they are going to inject EFF members . We are standing up to seek protection. We want to raise issues with you, he said to Speaker Baleka Mbete. He got short shrift from Mbete. This house cannot work on the basis of hearsay because you are now telling us something we are not aware of. We will do everything according to the rules to make sure everything we do in this House is based on the law and not on supposition or rumours, she said. When Malema stood up, Mbete warned him she would ask him to leave peacefully if he did not cooperate. He did not. When asked to exit the House, he delivered a tirade against the Speaker, saying among other things: I m not going to do that, I was elected, you are irrational . After chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi was escorted to a seat away from the EFF, members of the Parliamentary Protection Services moved in and forcibly removed the EFF members, some of whom lashed out at security staff with their hard hats. The EFF s persistent disruption of proceedings as a weapon of obstruction to Zuma s Sona also created tension among the ANC party faithful at the People s Assembly on the Parade. ANC Dullah Omar regional chairperson Xolani Sotashe had to call back ANC supporters who were attempting to make their way to Parliament as the red berets ignored a call from National Assembly Speaker Mbete for EFF MPs to leave the house. Comrades you are actually overshadowing this great event that we are having here. Today we are sending a political statement that we as the ANC are behind our leadership. Let us comrades not be provoked by anarchists, he said. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN AND BONOLO SELEBANO