Gauteng entrepreneur Brian Chigwendere started business in a garage to fill lucrative gap in entertainment production industryFOR every successful entrepreneur there is a tangled transcript, which includes a lifetime of soaring successes and abysmal failures and an ever-present will to keep pushing boundaries.One such entrepreneur is Brian Chigwendere, a resident of Gauteng and a self-made millionaire.He has over the years, evolving from being an events sales manager to pushing into the business world with force, wit and sheer determination.The well-spoken entrepreneur said he started his business from his garage in Northriding before he bought a house in the posh suburb of Bryanston. I resigned from where I was working in June of 2012 and on July 1, 2012, I started my own business from the garage at a house I was renting in Northriding. I didn t have any form of funding. He said his passion to go solo in business came after working on the 2010 World Cup s opening and closing ceremonies. I started my business just after the 2010 Fifa World Cup, I was working with a company that was doing technicals for the opening and closing ceremonies and it was at that point I decided to go on my own. What pushed me was my passion, Chigwendere said.His company, Puredeal Group, nestled in the Kya Sands industrial area, now has a multimillion rand annual turnover.Puredeal employs 10 people permanently and has more than 30 freelancers on its books who are recruited for major events.The company has become one of the leading black-owned event production companies specialised to produce corporate meetings, concerts, product launches, brand-building events, and grand opening events.Chigwendere said this ha always been his dream. What I am doing has been my passion since I was growing up. Fortunately I got to join the biggest supplier on the continent, Gearhouse. I worked there for about eight years. There I learnt a lot and the company taught me about business. He said for him to succeed he finds unfilled niches and then concentrates in the areas where his passion lies.Chigwendere said he noticed a gap in the entertainment event production industry and leapt in, lowering the prices of his equipment and gaining clients that no one else dared to deal with. I m an entrepreneur in the entertainment industry, I m talking about events production, we are the guys behind the scenes when it comes to live events. We supply technical equipment that includes that sound systems, staging, lighting and anything that is required for a successful event. -Samuel Mangadze