When platinum mining company Lonmin was faced with the HIV-Aids pandemic and other sexually transmitted infections in communities in which it operates, it embarked on a community-based peer educator campaign.The campaign became so successful, the government adopted it as a model to try to stem the tide of HIV and TB in the country.Called the re-engineering intervention programme, it started off when up to 50 community-based peer educators and about 100 home-based carers were trained to be community trainers themselves. Among the beneficiaries were the more than 1300 orphaned and vulnerable children in the communities.Desiree Monareng, Lonmin s community development manager and the person behind the campaign, confirmed that to date, they have trained 49 community-based peer educators and 92 home-based carers.The departments of health in Madibeng and Rustenburg were roped in to allow for efficient collaboration involving other health programmes for HIV-Aids and TB and the home-based care and peer education to be implemented in the greater Marikana area in the North West Bapong, Sonop, Majakaneng, Segwaelane, Wonderkop and Moddesspruit.In the North West, the peer education and home-based care volunteers have established non-profit organisations to sustain themselves and to survive.The caregivers are focused on palliative care to patients within a household and act as an extension of a clinic.They give treatment to TB patients and supply bedridden patients with immune booster meals to help improve their recovery. These dedicated volunteers receive extensive training through the Lonmin peer educator and home-based carer programmes, and they in turn pass on their knowledge to the communities, Monareng said.Monareng said this year the project worked at equipping the peer educators and home-based carers with the necessary skills to deal with the issues surrounding orphaned children.The nutrition programme provided food to more than 400 children at five community-based food centres in Marikana and two in Limpopo.Youth programmes were also included and give special attention following a sharp increase in teen pregnancies in 2012, substance abuse and HIV-Aids in the youth in the Marikana area, particularly in grades 6 to 12.The long-term goal is to reduce school dropout rates due to teen pregnancy. For grades 1 to 5, the programme focuses on abuse and children s rights.Monareng said the school dropout rate due to teenage pregnancy improved from 23.4% in 2011 to 17.2% in 2012. This programme is a natural progression of the school nutrition programme. We offer nutrition and health education and basic skills training to the food preparers to help them develop income generating projects. Training in permaculture food gardening was provided to 88 educators and 1013 pupils. Food gardens have been established at five food centres and 24 schools in Marikana and nine in Limpopo, with schools already harvesting, she said.Lonmin, Community Health and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) first joined hands on the HIV-Aids project in 2007.The overall goal is to improve knowledge, reduce STI and HIV transmissions and increase the HIV-Aids coping capacity for members of the community in which the mine operates. Home-based carers focused on palliative care to patients within a homestead thus being an extension of care from the clinic to a respective home, they also conducted direct observation treatment to TB patients. Bedridden patients were also supplied with immune booster meals which improved recovery. Peer educators mainly focused on health messaging, especially conducting one-on-one or group sessions. They also participated in outreach activities which were clinic based and mobilised patients. The responsibility of condom distribution also fell into their hands. These two programmes have proven to improve efficacy to access primary health care, the Department of Health has given it the thumbs up and decided to take these volunteers and embrace them in the so called re-engineering team. The Re-Engineering team comprises of a nurse and these volunteers who are responsible for tracing patients and treating them in the respective home settings. The current success status quo is manifested in the decision by the health department to accommodate both the peer educators and home-based carers into the re-engineering team. Lonmin has also refocused its energies by establishing a new cadre of home HIV counselling and testing and TB tracers in all greater Lonmin community clinics to curb the spread of TB and enhance voluntary home HIV testing.TNA Reporterprovinces@thenewage.co.za