A WOLWERIVIER community leader feels that local youngsters suffer the most as basic services and recreational facilities were inadequate.Many residents in the temporary relocation area near Atlantis have been living there since it was established in 2013. The city of Cape Town has offered a group of Woodstock residents facing eviction accommodation in the settlement.Children play at the Sunshine Educare classroom which is the only formal educational facility in Wolwerivier. Resident Wongie Swebe said the classroom also cater to some of the needs of community members.Community leader Magdalene Minnaar has been living in the area for 25 years and said she was concerned about the lack of constructive stimulation for young people. This place is so isolated and because the parents are unemployed they ve lost hope. There s a lot of alcohol and drug abuse here because there s nothing to stimulate the children. I don t see a future for the young people. Minnaar said she had sent a letter to the Cape Town council speaker asking for help. The city of Cape Town defended the establishment of Wolwerivier as an emergency housing settlement, saying the area was chosen on merit.Residents stay in one or two-roomed corrugated iron structures a two hour walk out from the closest shopping facilities and 30km from the city centre. The land was deemed to be appropriate for what the city had envisioned for the Wolwerivier project as it was close to the locations where the beneficiaries originally resided.When identifying suitable land for people to live, it is important to note that each parcel of land has to be decided on merit, the member of the mayoral committee for informal settlements, Xanthea Limberg, said.Wolwerivier is 20km from Donkin Tips, Milnerton, where some residents originally lived. Limberg said the broader Wolwerivier area would have work opportunities in the future as development takes place.Wolwerivier community leader Jakobus Isaacs said residents were promised paved roads, access to schools and jobs when they arrived in 2015. He said an Expanded Public Works Programme project in the area only lasted three months and afterwards the majority of Wolwerivier residents were left jobless. I am disappointed because I was brought from the front to the back, Isaacs said. Klaas Arendse, who stayed in Donkin Tips before he moved to Wolwerivier, said threats from authorities forced him to move.Limberg said the Wolwerivier area was developed because it was owned by the city and was topographically suitable. But Kallie Boorman disagreed and said the area was privately owned and developed on an old dam. In winter, the streets look like a swamp, Boorman, who moved to Wolwerivier after the property he lived in was bought by developers, said.In 2015 the Social Justice Coalition and Ndifuna Ukwazi, compiled a social audit of the settlement. Their findings showed some households were overcrowded, subsistence farming was difficult due to the poor soil, tenants did not have access to showers, there were no public facilities and emergency and essential services struggled to find the location.The city said eight emergency settlement areas existed within the metropolitan area. The beneficiaries were mostly relocated from landfill sites and the city wanted to improve their living conditions, Limberg said.TATENDA CHIRISERI