Following an improved matric pass rate in the 2016 academic year, the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) has called on school governing bodies (SGBs) in the province to function properly.Provincial secretary Anele Gxoyiya said the federation applauded the department of education for its hard work in improving the results and delivering quality education. He said the intervention by the SGBs to assist pupils to excel was critical and should be emphasised. The revival of SGBs and proper functioning of them in our schools is a catalyst for the delivery of quality education.We call on the workers to participate in the programme to ensure that they play a critical role in the education of their children, he said. The province recorded 78.7% and obtained position number five nationally. The MEC of education had vowed to improve the results this academic year.Meanwhile, Cosatu said the fight against corruption in the public sector would top the agenda this year and that it would leave no stone unturned in dealing with such issues. We call on the MEC of cooperative governance, human settlements and traditional affairs to intervene in the municipalities that owe money to Eskom and ensure that they settle their debts to avoid power cuts that may lead to more job cuts, he said.Gxoyiya was speaking after the provincial executive council meeting to discuss the state of the alliance, as well as socio-economic issues in the province. The labour federation also applauded the Wanya Tsotsi initiative aimed to curb crime in the townships. We are of the firm view that community crime fighting structures go a long way in helping the police fight crime, he said.Since the inception of Wanya Tsotsi, crime stats in and around Kimberley were reduced significantly. Furthermore, the labour federation has pledged to mobilise workers to support the ANC provincial secretary Zamani Saul for the position of the chairperson ahead of next month s elective conference.Gxoyiya said they had lobbied structures in the province and were in agreement with them that a leadership collective of Saul would be capable of delivering on the Cosatu criteria. Our choice of leaders for the forthcoming provincial conference is guided by commitment to the acceleration of radical economic transformation, proven commitment to a functional and united alliance, he said. Commitment to the unity of the ANC and the entire democratic movement rooted in the working class movement. Gxoyiya said their choice was informed by Saul s background from the student movement and from trade unions. We are also comfortable that he is nominated alongside a former and a serving communist party leader and former shop steward of the South African Municipal Workers Union, who also knows the federation well. He said the majority of the members responded positively to the fact that the provincial leaders called for the swelling of the ranks. We call for a peaceful conference that spends time on discussing a strategy to accelerate radical economic transformation, Gxoyiya said.He said the labour federation condemned any attempts to use a position of leadership and state machinery to deal with opponents.-Tiisetso Manoko|tiisetsom@thenewage.co.za