Former DA Western Cape leader and incumbent mayor of Cape Town Patricia de Lille yesterday extended an olive branch to her successor, Bonginkosi Madikizela.Madikizela was elected interim leader of the party at the weekend. De Lille pledged to assist him to build the DA s support in the Western Cape. I congratulate Bonginkosi Madikizela on his election as the interim leader of the DA in the Western Cape. I wish him strength and affirm my pledge to be there to assist the leadership in any way I can. I will be there to help him build support for the DA even more in the province on the road to 2019, she said.Fresh after being elected, Madikizela declared that he is his own man .He made the comments amid claims that preceded the weekend election, in which he defeated Shaun August, who was said to be de Lille s favourite and that he, Madikizela was Premier Helen Zille s prot g . The premier is a principled leader and we have a lot in common. I did not see how people voted, however I m confident she voted for me. But I m my own man. When I disagree with her I do tell her, he said.The leadership void at the top of the DA tree in the Western Cape was created when De Lille decided to step down from her position as DA head in the Western Cape.At least five candidates emerged as contenders for the top post, but August and Madikizela were the only serious contenders, with each reportedly representing De Lille and Zille in a battle for control. I did expect to win. But I never take anything for granted. I have a lot of faith in my colleagues. I have been in government for eight years. I m a man of integrity and espouse the values of the party, Madikizela said. The leadership vote was a vote of confidence in me, he said.He commented on the elements of racism which had marred the leadership tussle. It was not the white people who said in Facebook that the province is not ready for a black leader. I told them these comments were against the values of the party, he said. I wanted to remind these people we must not play the race card. He was glowing when he relived the moment the announcement was made. It was a very exciting moment. Now that it has set in, I know I have a very good team. There is no task that is too much for us. The biggest task at the moment is to become the government in 2019. Madikizela was optimistic the DA would be the new national government in two years time. To do this the party would have to consolidate its support, unite as a party and start winning more support in black areas. It s easy to march into new areas and leave our supporters behind us. Our challenge will be to take our supporters with us. We also have to share our vision of the future. We must keep our eyes on the bigger picture which is to serve South Africa, he said.Madikizela will be interim leader until elections are held in August.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za