THE Eastern Cape leadership of Cope is calling for an early national elective congress following what s believed to be a motion of no confidence against its leader, Mosioua Lekota two weeks ago, by the party s congress national committee. Addressing the media in East London, acting provincial secretary Lindela Dyani said the provincial branches have lost confidence in Lekota after he allegedly proposed to merge Cope with the DA. The Cope leadership in the Eastern Cape says Lekota has destroyed the party and it supports the decision taken by the national leadership to remove him. They accuse him of undermining party structures. Diyani said Lekota has failed to grow membership and accused him of embezzling party funds. As the Eastern Cape, we are in support of the decision taken by the congress national committee earlier this month to pass a vote of no confidence against Lekota. Secondly, we are in support of the calls for him to step down. We are calling on him to step down. He has failed to lead this organisation as comrade Ntsikelelo has eluded in 2009, Diyani said. Provincial secretary of Cope s youth wing, Ntsikelelo April, says they are going to approach law enforcement agencies and the public protector to investigate the party s parliamentary funding. If we don t get these financial reports we have no other option in terms of the financial report to get the public protector, auditor general and the Hawks to investigate. We are not going to tolerate corruption in Cope. We don t care even if it s Mr Lekota, April said. However, Cope s national chairperson Pakes Dikgetsi has rubbished the allegations as nonsense, adding that the Eastern Cape leadership has no mandate to speak on behalf of the party as it was disbanded in 2016. Those people don t speak on behalf of Cope in the province. Secondly, they are not even members of the central committee and they are not speaking on behalf of any structures of the Cope, Dikgetsi said. April also said all members of Cope s youth wing will meet in Bloemfontein next month to further discuss the issue of the party leader. SABC News