National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) CEO Zama Mkosi and judging chairperson John Kani of the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas) addressed the issue surrounding the withdrawal of Muvhango, and Skeem Saam from the awards.The two were speaking at the Safta awards nominees announcement on Thursday, which were held at The Forum in Bryanston. The mid-morning event saw a handful of television and film industry representatives gathered in anticipation of this year s favourites to bag the coveted Golden Horn statuette at 11th edition of the awards. Muvhango and Skeem Saam were all invited to take part in the Safta nominee processes, but they did not submit their entries and that is why they are not among the 11 most popular soapie award category, Mkosi said.Kani said as the chief judge of the awards he would take it up to himself to visit both production companies responsible for two of the country s most soapies. I think we as the team need to go to the two production companies and find out how we can improve the processes. But Kani s word of reconciliation might have come a little too late as scores of film and television fans slammed some of the nominees represented in the awards.Among those who stand a good chance of making the most impact include, e.tv crime drama Heist with eight nomination across the board.SABC3 s High Rollers got eight nods, including in the category most popular soapie. Coloured film, Noem My Skollie was one of the leaders in the feature film categories with 10 nods.Another tightly contested category is the best TV presenter awards which pits the likes of Masechaba Ndlovu, Anele Mdoda, Bonnie Mbuli, and Lawrence Maleka among others.Speaking to The New Age, creator and director of Heist, Rolie Nikiwe said it was inspiring to be recognised for pushing the envelope with the way he and his team told their stories. Sometimes you get rejected.Sometimes you get it wrong, but after getting it wrong so many times we are excited about the nominations, Nikiwe said. After dominating the awards three years ago, the popularity of Mzansi Magic s Isibiya seems to be waning. The telenovela turned soapie only received nine nods. The foundation through its rigorous judging process went through more than 441, which were whittled down to 258 nominees spread over 89 categories.This year, the awards will take place place at Sun City on March 17 and 18 and plans to stay there for the next five years.Mkosi says though each year comes with own challenges she and her team were working towards resolving challenges that creep up each year ahead of the awards. Each year comes with its own challenges and growth opportunities that we prioritise. The NFVF will continue to strive for transparency and solutions in order to make sure that the Saftas showcase not only the glamorous side of the industry, but the underlying wealth of talent, education, skill and, most importantly, the passion that the South African industry truly has. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za