The SACP yesterday cautioned against the national discussion on radical economic transformation being used as a ruse by the wealthy and connected in South Africa to jump on board the gravy train.Addressing the media in Johannesburg after a meeting of its central committee (CC), the SACP general secretary, Blade Nzimande, said while the communists welcomed the ANC s proposal on inclusive economic growth, the debate should not be used by the elite to bulldoze their way further up the ladder of economic development. It is only now, belatedly, that from the side of some within the ANC and government that we are seeing an attempt to provide a gloss to the notion of radical economic transformation. Unfortunately, radical in these quarters, is largely rhetorical and is almost entirely focused on advancing narrow black elite accumulation. This very narrow version of BEE evokes blacks in general, and Africans in particular , but in effect, it s about me and mine specifically . The reduction of radical economic transformation almost entirely to a question of private black corporate ownership, control and management of the economy sidelines any notion of social ownership, or of popular control, or of worker ownership and management. Nzimande s comments concurred with Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s sentiment on radical economic transformation in his budget speech. Gordhan was quoted as saying that the debate on fast-tracking economic development for the black majority must unite and not divide the country. The discussion also formed the bedrock of Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address.Nzimande said that the SACP agreed with Gordhan s talking points on the matter. All of this is designed to position private accumulation by narrow black elites as radical economic transformation for the benefit of the majority in general. The Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan was therefore absolutely right to remind us in his budget speech last week of the 1969 ANC Strategy and Tactics document, which asserted that our nationalism must not be confused with chauvinism or narrow nationalism of a previous epoch . Nzimande, making reference to a recently agreed upon R3500 a month national minimum wage, showed support for Cosatu amid pressure from its rival labour groups for agreeing to the deal brokered at the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac). Cosatu comrades presented the CC with a progress report on the National Minimum Wage agreement. The CC congratulated the Cosatu negotiators at Nedlac for their tough and principled negotiating stance. While Cosatu has not yet formally signed-off on the R20-an-hour, R3500-R3900 monthly national minimum wage, the progress made is a major Cosatu-led victory, based on its November 2014, 11th Congress resolution. While R3500 is not a living wage, 6.2 million workers are earning less than that and the enforcement of a national minimum wage will, therefore, represent an important advance for the working poor in particular. Nzimande said the government should not be remiss in tightening the noose on unscrupulous employers who may try to find loopholes in the law to avoid paying the R3500 a month.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za