Parliamentarians yesterday got an informed insight into the dire state of the local poultry industry when Department of Trade and Industry officials told MPs that the industry was in crisis and that policy interventions were urgently needed.While the deputy DG for trade, Xolelwa Mlumbi-Peter, was briefing parliament s select committee on trade and international relations on the problems caused by imports and high input costs, angry workers, former workers and company managers from the sector marched on the EU headquarters in Pretoria to express their anger over cheap imports and mounting job losses.However, the EU has accused the industry of using it as a handy scapegoat for domestic production problems and said the amount of EU chicken imported into SA was too small to be responsible for the crisis. Poultry Association CE Kevin Lovell, who joined the march on the EU offices, said the turnout was good, with support from various entities. The EU have acknowledged receipt of the memorandum.We want the EU to stop dumping chickens on our shores. About 500 people joined the march. Poultry imports into South Africa climbed from 8% of total consumption in 2003 to more than 20% between 2010 and 2013 and from 2003 to 2010 imports rose by 11% and local production by 7% each year, the DTI said. Officials told MPs that apart from the difficulties arising from imports, the drought had increased the cost of feed, which was 65%-70% of total production costs.Adding its voice yesterday was the National Council of Trade Unions (Nactu) saying the government must intervene to save jobs. The poultry industry says the dumping of cheap EU, US and Brazilian chicken products is putting at risk an industry with 110000 direct and indirect workers and a further 20000 jobs in the related grains industry. Organisers of the march said that 4000 to 5000 jobs had already been lost.RCL Foods, holding company for Rainbow Chickens, South Africa s largest poultry producer, said the issue has been growing since the EU started to send leg quarters to South Africa at what we consider dumped prices . MD Scott Pitman, who was at the march, said: Not only have we taken a financial burden over the past five years, but the loss has got so big that we are going to go bankrupt if we don t cut the size of our business. The industry alleges that the EU dumps off-cuts of dark meat , chicken thighs and drumsticks, in South Africa at below-cost prices because the European market prefers breast meat.At the end of yesterday s march, demonstrators handed a protest note to an EU official in Pretoria as a heavy police presence monitored the event. We are protesting because of overseas s chicken, marcher Elizabeth Mokale, 54, a farm labourer from Rustenburg in the North West, said. Brazil was the biggest poultry importer to South Africa in the first half of 2016, followed by Netherlands, Britain and Spain. The EU is SA s biggest trading partner, and the dispute marks a tricky start to the economic partnership agreement (EPA) between the two sides that came into force last year. With AFP-Samuel Mungadze|samuelm@thenewage.co.za 