&nbsp;Seven years after he broke into the limelight as an 18-year-old striker, Letsie Koapeng is getting yet another chance to prove why many regard him as a special talent. The striker from Soweto joined Cape Town City during the January transfer window and scored on his debut. That is something that always gets a player pumped up. Unlike Masibuzane Zongo, who gets kicked out of club after club because of ill-discipline, Koapeng s problem seem to be arriving at teams with massive promise, only to deliver very little in the long term. His second appearance was in the Cape Town derby, where he contributed to his side beating Ajax Cape Town and bagging the bragging rights. Koapeng was with Orlando Pirates when Eric Tinkler, who is his coach at City, was still in charge of the Soweto giants. The duo also worked together at Bidvest Wits, proving that Tinkler has always been an admirer of the striker who chose to put his first name, Letsie, on his shirt, rather than a surname which most players choose to carry. For years, Koapeng has been promising to improve on his goal count that stand at 41 matches and four goals. That is roughly a goal every 10 matches and for a player so highly rated and a former South African youth international, Koapeng will have to get better results at City to prove why he is so fancied. His captain at City, Lebogang Manyama, who has been in red hot form this season, has also spoken highly of Koapeng and said it was only a matter of time before people see what he s about. I have not seen someone who is so calm on the ball, especially in the box. We are always told to relax and pick the spot. That is what he does. I am surprised that he has not scored a lot of goals in the past, Manyama said. We are excited to have him. From what I have seen in training and in the matches we have played, he will help ease our goal scoring load. There is no doubt that he has a lot of quality and potential. You will think I am saying this because he is my teammate, but that is not the case, City captain Manyama said. Unlike most, Koapeng has been presented with a number of golden opportunities to entrench himself on the local front and one notable statistic he has is that of having played for three top teams in the PSL, with Pirates being the biggest. His killer instinct showed against Highlands Park, but it is his hoped for consistency in front of goals that should see him establish himself as a top striker. Unlike other teams, City has given strikers such as Lehlogonolo Majoro, Bongolwethu Jayiya and Judas Moseamedi a chance to be league stars and they find themselves top of the Premiership log ahead of tonight s fixtures. Koapeng will have a full week to gel with his teammates as Tinkler, Majoro, Tshepo Gumede, Thamsanqa Mkhize, Robyn Johannes and Aubrey Ngoma plot a path to victory in the clash against Pirates that is set to take place on Saturday in Cape Town. Mmasekepe Matsebane| mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za