FOLLOWING days of water interruptions in the Rooisand area the municipality reported yesterday that it had managed to fix burst pipes.Spokesperson of Gamagara municipality Kamogelo Semamai said the pipes had been repaired but they would put more resources into the area as the same pipe had burst twice in one week. We have discovered that the area was developed by private developers and as such we do not have any technical know how of the designs. We will be interacting with them to find out because their service appears not to be up to standard, he said.Semamai said they would be working around the clock to ensure that they contniued the water supply to consumers as part of its service delivery. We have been working there every time when problems are reported with the sole understanding of saving water and ensuring provision of water as a basic service for our people, he said.Semamai said the municipality had rolled its sleeves because it understood the importance of delivering water to the residents as it was one of the essential services. We will interact with the developers for us to get a report on the technical side to understand the material used when constructing this pipe and what its life span is going forward, he said. Semamai said the situation was attended to immediately after it was reported by community members but the pipe burst again. It is with regret that the same main line reported on Sunday has burst again. Our team is working on ensuring that the problem is permanently fixed or repaired, Semamai said.Recently mayor Dineo Moyo visited the area where the main water pipeline which supplies water to the area and Kathu to assess the situation.Moyo called on residents to be patient as the municipality got to the bottom of the water crisis with the key focus of ensuring the water supply was uninterrupted. During her inaugural speech mayor Moyo said they would address issues of land grabs and water leaks. This cannot continue, water has become one of our scarce resources and we cannot tolerate any losses, we will have to investigate negligence and hold people accountable, Moyo said.She said the task ahead was great and she challenged all officials to roll up their sleeves, to get their hands dirty and get to work to deliver services to people. All hands on deck to create a national democratic society that will easily associate and identify with this municipality. We also commit you the officials to resolve all issues of water accounts and water meters within a reasonable amount of time, Moyo said.TIISETSO MANOKO