A pensioner has been sentenced to 40 years imprisonment by the Boschfontein Regional Court outside Malelane after being found guilty of raping two girls aged seven and 10.Antonio Hlahla, 72, was sentenced to 20 years on each of the rape charges last week and both sentences would run concurrently.The rape incidents happened in the Tonga area in 2013 when Hlahla invited the children belonging to his neighbours under the pretext of sending them to buy him cigarettes at the nearby shop. He would then rape them.Provincial police spokesperson Sgt Gerald Sedibe, said the conviction and sentence handed to the pensioner had been welcomed by the provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Mondli Zuma. The provincial police commissioner is pleased with the 40 year jail term, Sedibe said. Hlahla was the third rapist to be granted a lengthy sentence to languish in jail in the last 15 days. This is indicative that rapists have no place in our society. The provincial commissioner believes that these sentences will serve as a deterrent to other potential offenders. Local community members were shocked to learn that a person they viewed as a parent, was in fact a rapist of their children. Let him rot in jail. He is not wanted in the community, residents said.Meanwhile, the North Gauteng High Court sitting in Kwaggafontein has sentenced Percy Langalakhe Mnguni, 34, and Sibusiso Kunene, 29, to 30 years imprisonment.This, after Mnguni and Kunene were found guilty on charges of murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances and possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. Both men, who were jailed last week, were convicted of robbing a family of an undisclosed amount of money at their home in Sun City AA near KwaMhlanga in June 2015.During the robbery, the family members managed to chase after the getaway car using their own car while alerting the police. The driver of the robbers car lost control and crashed. The accused were arrested by the police. Sedibe said the men were also declared unfit to possess firearms. The court acknowledged the commitment of the investigator for working tirelessly and having presented enough evidence that assisted the state to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt until conclusion, which necessitated such a sentence, Sedibe said.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za