After being in the civil service for the past 18 years, 46-year-old Nape Nchabeleng has made a giant stride in his career following his appointment as the director-general of the Limpopo provincial government on February.But Nchabeleng is not new to the role, he has been acting in the position since October 2015 after the retirement of the then acting director-general, Dr Phuti Pheme. I am determined to take the province to great heights by building a strong team and working together with colleagues and leaders for development, Nchabeleng said.He is confident that the civil service machinery will grind smoothly under his stewardship with support from forward looking men and women entrusted with ensuring that public funds benefit citizens. As acting head of cooperative governance and traditional affairs department here in the province from 2013 to June 2014, I was able to revive house procurement reforms. This after the housing grant was suspended due to allegations of corruption and I managed to conclude the organisational restructuring process and implemented change management strategy. Premier Stan Mathabatha said he was glad to welcome a new soldier in the fight against corruption. The premier is delighted because it has been three years since there was no permanent director-general for the province. The appointment is in line with the auditor-general s recommendations that we need people with accountability and requisite qualifications in order to attain clean audits. The premier says Nchabeleng has been in the civil service for some time and knows his story well, Mathabatha s spokesperson Kenny Mathiba said.SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) provincial secretary Matome Raphasha congratulated Nchabeleng, saying he came at a time when the province was in the news for the wrong reasons due to administrative blunders that led to stationery being delivered to schools nearly a month after reopening for the new academic year. Knowing him well, we expect the new director-general to be on top of things to ensure books and other learning and teaching material reach schools on time. He must monitor heads of departments and strengthen human resources and ensure the conditions of service are on sound footing, Raphasha said.Nchabeleng, who matriculated at Mokhulwane High School in Ga-Nchabeleng village, Sekhukhune district in 1990, took part in the youth fight against apartheid.His activism saw him attaining various leadership positions in the mass democratic movement in the mid 1980s. While working for the Limpopo government, he was seconded to serve as Cosatu parliamentary office deputy head from June 2000 to January 2003.MONTSHO MATLALAmontshom@thenewage.co.za