Talks have already begun between the PSL and major sponsors Absa over renewing their long-standing partnership.The deal, renewed five years ago, runs out in August, but Absa head of marketing David Wingfield said there was great interest from both parties to continue what has been a fruitful 10-year partnership. We are in an ongoing dialogue with the PSL about where to from here. Football in South Africa is a great passion point for us and we are in ongoing negotiations. We have been for some time, Wingfield said. We don t see ourselves as people who hand over a cheque. It s about how we both take what we want in terms of putting football forward. I can t talk about the specifics because contractually I can t do that. But with all of our contracts, we have quite a lead-up time to when we renew. We can t wait till the end of the season for discussions. In that way we are going to have a big problem. Wingfield, however, has admitted their partnership has experienced challenges, including poor attendance at matches and the recent unruly behaviour of spectators. Chaos descended on Loftus on Saturday when fans invaded the pitch, disrupting a league match between Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates. As sponsor we have an obligation with our partners to address some of the issues at our games, Wingfield said. Yes, we have challenges at some games with the attendance, something we are working on together because it benefits us. Our position on the Loftus issue is that it s unacceptable and unfortunate. But I can t comment on the matter. The PSL are an organisation and understand how to run football. We are sponsors we don t run the league. They are obviously in communication with us, but they need to get on with what they do as the league. Of course what happened at Loftus wasn t a good spectacle. Football has challenges everywhere in the world. There are different issues in different places. Together with the PSL, Absa yesterday launched a new addition to its monthly recognition awards of players, the PSL goal of the month.Football fans and members of the general public will decide the winner of the goal of the season through a monthly voting system.Each of the goals selected during the month, such as the one Kaizer Chiefs veteran Siphiwe Tshabalala scored against Free State Stars recently, will be added to the list of goals to be voted for the goal of the season.KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA | kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za