Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Wednesday said economic transformation must benefit disadvantaged South Africans through creation of new assets. Transformation must be mass-based, benefiting the most disadvantaged South Africans through the creation of new assets, capabilities and opportunities to build livelihoods, Gordahn said.The Minister said government needs to mobilise private and public investments in social and economic infrastructure via new technologies and new activities that will help build a diversified economy.Gordhan was delivering the budget speech in Parliament. Addressing the issue of bank collusion, the Minister said government must continue to fight the ill practice robustly, and that there must be new opportunities in the banking sector. We must continue to confront cartels and collusion robustly and provide new opportunities for access to markets, Gordhan reiterated.He added that economic transformation must result in an economy that belongs to all, where legacy of race is no longer visible.Gordhan said South Africa s growth challenge is intertwined with transformation. We need to transform in order to grow, we need to grow in order to transform. Without transformation, growth will reinforce inequality; without growth, transformation will be distorted by patronage,&#8221; the Minister emphasised.He also emphasised that transformation needs to establish a new economic direction, mobilise investments empower masses and create new resources for social change.Highlights of the Economic Transformation by Finance Minister, in line with President Jacob Zuma s Vision include: We have to mobilise both private and public investment in social and economic Infrastructure, new technologies and new activities that help build a modern and Diversified economy. We must continue to confront cartels and collusion robustly and provide new opportunities for access to markets. Transformation must re-shape our cities and build linkages across the rural and urban landscapes, where fragmentation and separation characterised past patterns. Transformation must achieve a more balanced structure of ownership and control in our economy. Transformation should build on and strengthen democracy, and entrench open, transparent governance and the rule of law. Transformation must build self-reliance of South Africans, reject the dependence on debt and protect our fiscal sovereignty. Transformation must result in an economy that belongs to all, black and white, where the legacy of race domination is no longer visible.-Sipho Jack