The aunt of a 14-year-old boy whose body was recovered at the weekend is expected to appear in court for the murder, along with three other people.A week s search for Vusi Mabude, who disappeared from his home in Nkantolo village outside Bizana earlier this month, ended when his body was found in a pit toilet near a school.It emerged that Mabude had been kidnapped when people contacted his family demanding a R6000 ransom. However, police say those arrested for the murder confessed to killing the boy on the same day.The crime is suspected to have been the result of a family feud.The ANC Women s League in the province has condemned the killing saying the law must take it course. We are quite aware that the parents have been crying and everybody and the police services has been trying to get to the bottom of this. So, I want to say to the SAPS that we really appreciate what they have done in making sure they got the criminals. We will see to it that the court resolves the problem, the league s Nozipho Tobo said.An organisation that advocates for the Rights of the Child in the province, the Khula Community Development Project, has also condemned the killing of the boy.Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority has welcomed the lengthy sentence given to an Eastern Cape man who raped and killed a 14-year-old girl and hid her body in a shack for four days.Last week the Port Elizabeth High Court sentenced 22-year-old Andr Tieman to two life terms for raping and killing Micaylen Hendricks and hiding her body in April last year.Hendricks had been sent to the shops when she met Tieman, who persuaded her to go with him to his room. Once in the room the accused raped her and strangled her. When he realised she was dead he covered her body with clothes, cloths, curtains and loose planks. He also took the cellphone she had with her and used it. The deceased sustained a blunt force head injury. Suffocation could not be ruled out, the NPA said. The accused did not show any remorse during the trial and the judge found him guilty on the counts of rape, murder and theft and sentenced him to two life terms and further imposed the maximum sentence of 51 years in prison. The state, represented by advocate Garth Baartman, was able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt, the NPA said. SABCnews-TNA REPORTER