In an historic move, the ANC plans to host a people s assembly the same evening that President Jacob Zuma delivers his state of the nation address (Sona).The ANC said in statement yesterday that the assembly is part of its build-up to the Sona. As South Africa prepares for the 2017 Sona, the ANC will continue our active engagement with our people through several build up activities, which will include interaction with various sectors of society. These activities will culminate in a people s assembly on February 9 at the Grand Parade, Cape Town, where at a public viewing of the state of the nation address, our people will gather to listen as President Jacob Zuma outlines interventions to shape our collective future for the better, the ANC said.It is expected that Zuma will address the assembly immediately after he delivers his Sona on Thursday evening.This is the first time since the advent of democracy that the ruling party will be hosting a parallel event on the same day as the Sona.In 1990, the ANC hosted a welcome home rally for late former president Nelson Mandela at the Grand Parade following his release from prison.As Thursday approaches, one thing is becoming clearer about President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address: threats of spoiling the occasion are being taken seriously. We are expecting to host a successful event for our members, for the President, a successful event that will make South Africa proud. From our side we have made the necessary preparations. You do have challenges, Secretary to Parliament Gengezi Mgidlana said.However, Mgidlana refuted suggestions of an increased security net around Parliament. The idea of securing Parliament, of increased security in Parliament is false. There isn t anything of that nature. Our constitution talks of security services. When you have events of this nature you have a number of actors in the security space. They form part and parcel of any planning we do for Sona, year after year. Indeed, state security is part of that. I would not single them out, he said. Yes, they would have been here to perform their duties. It s not the first time that they have come. From our perspective, Sona is not about security it s about the day when the President will deliver the state of nation address and the public interacting. Whether we are vetting staff for Sona, the answer is no , he said.He said in terms of Parliament s operations, plans have not really changed in terms of the format from what we ve done in the past .Streets in the immediate vicinity of Parliament will be closed for three days, starting tomorrow and continuing until Friday.As part of its contribution to the national effort to cut the spending of taxpayers money and also in an acknowledgement of the economic climate in South Africa, there will be no post-Sona dinner this year, Mgidlana said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za