The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) has called for an urgent progress report on the investigation into the killing of Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa and Mandeni traditional leader inkosi Linda Mathonsi.The party said it was disconcerting that such high-profile cases had not been solved months after they had happened and it raised concerns that this meant cases involving ordinary people were at the risk of never being solved. We request your urgent intervention to ensure the efficient and professional investigation by the SAPS and/or the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) of the killing of Meyiwa and Mathonsi and that the perpetrators are caught and prosecuted as a matter of urgency and that a report on the progress in the investigation is available, the party said in a letter addressed to Police Minister Nathi Nhleko. The prioritisation of crime seems to be purely geared towards those who could further advance or protect their careers and increase their favour in the ruling party at the expense of the normal citizen. Meyiwa was killed in 2014 in Ekurhuleni, while visiting his singer girlfriend Kelly Khumalo. Two men entered the house and demanded cellphones before shooting Meyiwa and fleeing. The police said the Meyiwa case was complex and that announcements would be made when the need arose. A statement will be made as and when a breakthrough is made. We do not do investigations through the media, police spokesperson Sally de Beer said.The star s father, Sam Meyiwa, said it was heartbreaking that there had been no progress in the case almost three years later. He said he felt that his hands were tied as he could not do anything. I am so tired of waiting in hopes that the killers will be arrested. It is painful to see people going on with their lives and I am still mourning my son, he said. Senzo has been abandoned in his death.There is no justice for him. I do not know where to go or who to talk to bring some finality in the matter. It really breaks my heart. Mathonsi was shot in the head and neck in December last year while travelling with his daughter, who also sustained a gunshot wound to her arm. No arrests have been made in the case.LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za