FIFA president Gianni Infantino is expected to address a wide range of issues when he meets with football federation heads on the continent in a three-day summit from tomorrow.The summit will be the first of its kind, with the world s football governing body dealing directly with all the presidents of CAF associations outside Fifa and CAF congresses. Heads of the 54 CAF member countries will get clarity on several proposals Infantino has made since he assumed the leadership of Fifa, including plans to expand the World Cup and changes to its development structures.Fifa suggested at the weekend the co-hosting of the World Cup by up to four countries. Infantino believes the financial burden of hosting could be spread across four nations while he also explained they should be located close to each other for logistical reasons. We will encourage co-hosting for the World Cup because we need Fifa to show we are reasonable and we have to think about sustainability long-term, Infantino said. It is perfectly in line with our sustainability and legacy to maybe bring together two, three, four countries who can jointly present a project with three, four, five stadiums each. Organisers of the summit have said the CAF association heads will be split into two groups, with some 25 meeting Infantino and other Fifa officials tomorrow and the rest following suit on Wednesday. It is the first time the Fifa president will be in the country since assuming office and we look forward to welcoming him here. The summit will also be attended by a high number of the presidents of CAF member associations, Safa president Danny Jordaan said.Infantino is understood to be agitating for change in the CAF leadership and will be backing candidates vying for the top position against incumbent president Issa Hayatou, who is seeking an eighth term. Meanwhile, Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula has rebutted a report that President Jacob Zuma is backing Issa Hayatou in the upcoming CAF presidency election.In a statement, the continent s football governing body claimed Zuma reiterated the commitment of his government and his personal commitment to his brother Hayatou, endorsing his candidacy for a new term at the helm of CAF. But Mbalula has clarified that Zuma wished Hayatou well as he would to other candidates. Abiding by the principle of noninterference in the affairs of football democracy, President Jacob Zuma did not pledge his personal support or that of the South African government behind the name of Mr. Hayatou, Mbalula said.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha