A HEAVY, mainly blue, security blanket that oozed a resolute firmness, turned the area immediately around Parliament into a pedestrians paradise. No vehicles were allowed to breach a steel perimeter set up in the area. Walking around and not having to be concerned about a taxi seemingly appearing out of nowhere, or a motorist suddenly stopping next to one, was akin to freedom. Missed near Parliament were the street vendors. Like many others, they have learned from past experiences, obviously believing it s better to be absent and safe than sorry. On some streets, a concrete barricade delivered a blunt message to drivers and their vehicles to stay out . Groups of armed police officers patrolled the city s streets. Their presence making the roads feel safer. They were not the only visible face of security members of Cape Town s metro police unit, obvious in their navy blue apparel, were also on duty. Police on scramblers also patrolled the streets, checking for any unwelcome presence or unlawful activities. From encounters with police, the impression was that they were friendly, but resolute about ensuring that President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address (Sona) went off without any interference from outside. The loud whirring of helicopter blades were reminders of the security forces eye in the sky. Upon arriving at Parliament, those motorists, such as journalists, who wanted to park their vehicles in a specially designated area, first had to subject themselves and their cars to a security check before they were allowed to disembark and proceed to Parliament. Here again, there was another security point. Every time journalists left the parliamentary precinct, they had to run the gamut of what was referred to as the media checkpoint. In Parliament itself, last minute work was being done to make Zuma s day. Workers were putting down a red carpet. Elsewhere in central Cape Town, life went on as normal. Greenmarket Square, a favourite with locals and tourists, was bustling as ever, with the lunchtime crowd sitting outside and inside restaurants and coffee shops, chatting, eating and drinking. Some of the luckiest people in Cape Town yesterday were those employed by Parliament, but because they were performing non-essential services, they were asked to spend the day at home. DENNIS CRUYWAGEN