HAVING been in the game for more than 15 years and achieved most of his career goals, Raven Klaasen is now trying to push outside of what he initially targeted. Klaasen is here to represent South Africa in the Davis Cup Euro/Africa Group 1 tie against Estonia.The 34-year-old doubles specialist said when he came into the sport he wanted to represent his country, win a Masters title, play in a Grand Slam final and achieve a top 10 world ranking. What has been amazing for me is that in the past five years, every year has been better than the year before, Klaasen said. I constantly had to reshuffle my goals. I have achieved most of the goals I had in terms of my personal tennis. Now I am trying to push outside of what I wanted. To be in the top 10 in the world s doubles rankings, play finals of Grand Slams and win the Masters, those are the things I wanted to achieve in my career. Klaasen is the country s topranked doubles player in ninth place. The South African ace now wants at least one Grand Slam title before retiring as he believes he still has a few years remaining. Having done things which would have seemed inconceivable a while ago, my goal will be to push for a Grand Slam title because that s where you get judged the most. Klaasen, who has at least 10 titles to his name, missed the chance to achieve his goal last month in the Australian Open when he lost in the quarterfinals of the mixed doubles, together with Dutch partner Michaella Krajicek. He was also knocked out in the second round of the men s doubles at Melbourne Park last week with American partner Rajeev Ram. Australia is one of the best tournaments to play in but my own campaign was not as successful as I would have liked. I won a few matches and made the quarterfinals of the doubles. I fully understand that if you don t play well in professional tennis you are not going to win. I have to fix what I was doing wrong there and the results will come. I am going to keep my practice in a high gear so that I make sure I play the best tennis going forward. The Davis Cup tie kicks off tomorrow until Sunday.sithembisod@thenewage.co.za-Sithembiso Dindi