Ministers in the International Cooperation, Trade and Security cluster will take their cue from President Jacob Zuma s plan to drive radical economic transformation, Telecommunications and Postal Services Minister Siyabonga Cwele said yesterday.Addressing journalists after the state of the nation address briefing, Cwele said that all ministers belonging to the cluster would take concrete action based on the measures outlined in Zuma s programme of action for the year ahead. We really have to heed this call that we have as a leading governing party to take it upon ourselves to take South Africans along. If you listened to the president s speech, he was saying if we don t take these measures our democratic project of reconciliation may be at risk. So it s important we take South Africans along to make sure the wealth of this country is shared among all, it s not about taking, it s about sharing among all cities. Zuma said the structure of the country s economy had to channel poor South Africans into the socioeconomic mainstream. Cwele, while lauding investments made in the financial, transport and communications sectors, said economic growth in these and other key sectors of the economy had to benefit more South Africans. The challenge is how much is accrued to the small sector, how much of that is accrued to blacks. That s what we are fundamentally trying to change and we are using every state lever to make sure there s meaningful participation of blacks in these sectors, he said.Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom said while the tourism sector could still be characterised as a skewed transformed sector , opportunities still existed to change the patterns of growth. In tourism we think it presents a good opportunity. In the NDP, when we talk about inclusive growth, you can unpack that and it means the same thing. We won t have anything benefitting anyone if our economy doesn t grow. If we introduce measures and negatively impact on the economic growth, it ll be to the detriment of everybody. When we talk radical economic transformation it mustn t sound radical. It must have the desired effect. Chairperson of the cluster and Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa said the concept of radical economic transformation would be amplified in the work done by the various ministries within the cluster. In the work we do there will certainly be elements of what constitutes radical economic transformation. We will certainly work on land matters, from the point of view of our international investors who are coming in the space of agriculture even the downstream value-add aspects of agriculture. That ownership includes South Africans. We are part and parcel of the radical economic transformation that must ensure we transfer the wealth of this country to the majority, Molewa said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za