It was high drama yesterday when a peace initiative by warring factions within the ANC s former military wing was disrupted by protests that opened old wounds about the disappearance of anti-apartheid activist Nokuthula Simelane and the marginalisation of some MK cadres.Former MK commander and SA National Defence Force (SANDF) chief Siphiwe Nyanda put on a brave face while briefing the media in Johannesburg on a decision taken by uMkhonto We-Sizwe Military Veterans Association MKMVA and the MK Council Steering Committee, to mend fences following last year s fall out between the groups.Nyanda said that the peace-building exercise would not be derailed by the protests that had occurred. I m not going to comment.You can see for yourself what is happening and make deductions. From our part the steering committee came into this exercise informed by what we have been saying, that the state of the organisation (ANC) is a concern to us. The ANC itself, the ANC s veterans league, MKMVA and us are here to try and resolve those issues. We re doing everything in our power to attend to those. Nyanda s comments come against the background of a protestor attempting to voice his concerns over the disappearance of Simelane, who went missing in 1983 en route to the Carlton Centre in Johannesburg.The protestor, portly and sporting a cap, was frogmarched out of the ANC s Luthuli House headquarters by security. In a second protest, a man accused MK veteran Thabang Makwetla of being a sellout. No one is a special MK cadre here. Comrades Gabuza and Makwetla never did anything for us, never. There will be no so-called conference, he said.MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe said that despite the disagreements among members of MKMVA, the ANC s former military wing should strive towards unity. We are moving forward with uniting MKMVA. We will speak to the comrades who are here. We condemn (the disruption) as the leadership of MKMVA. It was never supposed to have happened. If comrades have issues about me, they don t have to go to a press conference to raise issues. Makwetla told The New Age that the disruption bordered on mischief . The drama this morning at the press briefing came as an unfortunate surprise. No one would have expected that those within the MK rank and file would be unhappy with our developments in closing ranks.This shows beyond reasonable doubt what we are up against. We welcome the challenge. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za