The ANC in Parliament will today test it s mettle against opposition political parties as President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address is debated.The ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said ANC MPs would not have their plans to articulate Zuma s programme of action for the year ahead derailed by the expected political sideshows from the opposition benches. We expect our MPs to comment on the president s plan of action on how we should transform the economy. We expect them to outline the practical steps, Kodwa said. He slammed opposition parties who staged a walkout after EFF members were dragged out of the chamber by members of Parliament s protection services. We have no business with people who have no interest in running the country.There s no reason as to why they walked out. Kodwa s comments come against the backdrop of Parliament s presiding officers yesterday expecting a report into the scenes of chaos that almost brought Zuma s address to a halt. It is for this reason that Kodwa said that the scenes of mayhem at Zuma s address were regrettable . It was unfortunate to see that honourable members of Parliament can behave in such a dishonourable manner, he said. Spokesperson to DA leader Mmusi Maimane, Mabine Seabe said National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete should be held responsible for rendering Parliament ungovernable. At the centre of all the chaos is the speaker of a national assembly who is compromised. She does not know the rules, the Constitution and acts recklessly. We also have a president who does not respect the Constitution. Seabe also said that the official opposition party would be discussing key policy matters in relation to the economy. The president delivered a speech that was low on ideas and policy. We will fully engage on policy issues, he said. Cope national spokesperson Dennis Bloem laid the blame for the outbreak of violence in the Chamber last week on the doorstep of Zuma. Mr Zuma must take the blame for what has happened in the Chamber. He does not want to respect the Constitution. We will never sit under one roof with the president, Bloem said. He said that Cope couldn t be bothered by the content of Zuma s speech. We did not follow the content because he delivered his speech to an ANC caucus, we were not there. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa, making reference to the violence that erupted last week, said the ANC in Parliament owed the country an explanation on the brute force meted out against the red berets. It must be condemned in the strongest terms. We had people who were not security from Parliament. The government owes the country an explanation on where they come from, Holomisa said . He also said Zuma s speech fell flat. He failed to explain what radical economic transformation is. Bonolo Selebano|bonolos@thenewage.co.za