After years of raising concerns about dirty water, Ngaka Modiri Molema district municipality residents remain with the same challenge of having to use dirty and unhygienic water.In June 2014, three babies died in Bloemhof from drinking contaminated water. The municipal manager resigned ahead of two criminal lawsuits, and the mayor was fired.After the incident that occurred the district municipality was placed under administration due to critical challenges that needed urgent attention, including water scarcity and a chaotic administration.A resident said they had reported this issue several times with the district municipality, however they still remain without clean water. This problem was reported many times before to all governments responsible, municipality, provincial government, department of water affairs. It was also widely carried in the media since 2013, even the public protector visited us and brought out an instruction in favour of the residents but that was also ignored, the resident who refused to be named said.The waste treatment plant spill has contaminated the Groot Marico river which supplies drinking water to the surrounding villages. It is also said that the water is polluted by the nonexistence of a sewerage system in the town of Groot Marico, where raw sewage flows directly into the river.Collen Maine who was then the MEC for the local government in the North West said: The problem in that district is severe. I would say there is no municipality there, there is a lot of irregularities, there are appointments every day, there is a crisis of water. In 2016, the department of water and sanitation said it had allocated R350m to reduce sanitation and drought-induced problems. However a resident said the district municipality promised the residents a new plant, but they still have not seen anything happening. The municipality had told us that there will be a new treatment plant in our area, but none of that has happened, not even a sign. We even suspect that the municipality doesn t have money, a resident said.The DA councillor in Ramotshere Moiloa local municipality, Cornel Dreyer also raised a concern stating that the municipality is putting the residents health at risk due to their negligence. The municipality s negligence poses a direct threat to the health and well-being of the residents as they are at risk of contracting diseases such as cholera and diarrhoea, Dreyer said.This comes after residents received brown water from their taps during the last weekend of January.The DA said it has written to the Department of Water and Sanitation requesting that they immediately investigate the delay in completing the water treatment plant in Groot Marico. On several occasions I put pressure on the Ngaka Modiri Molema district municipality to upgrade the waste treatment plant but without success, Dreyer said.Residents said the department of water and sanitation once took water samples and said they will bring back the results. However up to date we have not received any update on the results. The New Age sent media inquiries to the district municipality and to the North West water and sanitation department. We had no response by the time of going to print.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za