THE migration of graduates from the Eastern Cape to other provinces is draining the region of skills required for economic development.This skills drain poses a challenge to the province and is making it difficult for the government to fulfil its national development plans presented in 2011 to the region, which states that for its goals to be met, there must be the means, the goodwill, the people and the resources. The people of the province share this vision.The Eastern Cape Planning Commission defined what the NDP should mean for them. This definition has been used to inform the Eastern Cape s provincial development plan.The province is striving for an inclusive, equitable and growing economy. Furthermore, Eastern Cape aims to have an educated, innovative and empowered citizenry. The premiers office feels that there is no issue regarding students moving as they please to find opportunities, but he outlined what the region was doing to train and retain skills.Sizwe Kupelo from the Eastern Cape premiers office says every year the department gives experiential training to unemployed graduates under an internship programme for 12 months. Some of these candidates end up getting permanent employment and when such opportunities become available. Kupelo said people moved to other provinces for various and mainly personal reasons. Education expert from Wits university Mary Metcalf agreed with Kupelo saying students could be moving to other provinces for economic freedom. An example of a lack of opportunities in the Eastern Cape is Zingiswa Mndayi who studied at NMMU for her media studies diploma and had been trying to get employment for over four years, but no job opportunity came. There is so much nepotism that if you do not have a family member that can help you get in, you stay job hunting. Mndayi said the advantage for job seekers was if they knew someone working in an organisation that one wished to work for, in her case it was SABC. I even got a SABC internship in Mahikeng where no one knows me because my qualification was considered not who I know or what my second name is, Mndayi said. With reluctance to answer, Kupelo said whenever there are nepotism allegations, it is investigated. I think the department is trying to employ newly qualified people depending on the availability of the budget. We are presently employing over 400 core business related skills between January and April 2017, Kupelo said. South Africa is a unitary state everyone is at liberty to move around looking for better opportunities, all I know is that opportunities, when advertised even in the Eastern Cape are open to every South African. SISANDA MADWANTSI