While the timing of Cricket South Africa s (CSA) announcement that they are advertising the position of national coach Russell Domingo may be questionable, this has not affected him and the players, batman Hashim Amla has said.Amla said the focus remains on the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy in England and Wales in June and that s the only thing on their minds at the moment. CSA have told Domingo to reapply for his position despite the Proteas enjoying a good run of form both in the long and short format of the game. Amla said the coach remains focused on his job and is not allowing himself to be distracted from the job at hand, which is preparations for the tournament. He is still motivated a lot, which is brilliant and he has been professional in everything he has done, Amla said. Don t forget it is only six or seven months away before his contract finishes, which is a long time. But in between that we will have different challenges that we need to keep our focus on and that s what the vision of the team has been. There has not been any form of distraction or anything like that. We understand that we play a bigger cause here for the country. Domingo s position as head coach is due to end after the England tour in early August and his position remains in doubt.Amla, however, feels preparations are on the right track despite the uncertainty surrounding the future of the coach. I think the preparations have been very good if you look at the buildup we have had as a team, winning the last series against Australia as convincing as we did. Being 1-0 up here is good for us going forward. The coach and the captain have tried to put the structure for us in place to succeed and it s really pleasing to see it working very well. Amla, who had a bad run before he scored a century in his 100th Test for the Proteas against Sri Lanka and followed it up with a half-century in the ODI series, feels he is now getting back to his best form. I haven t changed anything. That s how it goes, sometimes you have a lean patch. I have managed to get some runs in the last two innings but take nothing for granted, I still have to continue working hard. Sometimes you go through these patches.There are other better players who have been through it and it s the nature of the game. You just have to be patient. But I m not looking too far ahead. The Proteas will be looking to go 2-0 up when they meet Sri Lanka in the second ODI today at Sahara Kingsmead in Durban at 1.30pm.-Neville Khoza|nevillek@thenewage.co.za 