THIS may sound hard to be believe but heels were first worn by men as a symbol of status, wealth and masculinity. High heels were adopted by European aristocracy of the 1600s and worn to show off that the well-heeled don t have to work for a living.Thirty years after men took to wearing heels, women donned them as a symbol of protesting and the wresting of power away from men. It is during this period that women cut off their hair, smoked pipes and wore hats as a way to emasculate men.Fast forward to modern day fashion where women wear high heels to show off their status and to give themselves a lift. Add a weave, long nails, an expensive bag or clutch to the stiletto and the woman is complete. However, everything has its price.Wearing high heels constantly has its health implications. Studies have shown that wearing highpitched shoes is not good for your posture and your feet and it is associated with ailments ranging from knee problems, ingrown nails, bunions and heel pains to sprained ankles.There are no known South African studies available on the health implications on the prolonged use of high heels. But a study published in the International Journal of Clinical Practice (IJCP) in 2015 points out that wearing high heels can strengthen the ankle initially, but leads to weakening and instability over time.Furthermore, wearing heels puts extra strain on your spine and the muscles that support the lower back. However, many local celebs admit they won t be seen dead in public without a weave and a shoe with heels less than 6cm long.Anything shorter than that is considered low class or low status. Mrs South Africa s first princess and media entrepreneur Olwethu Leshabane and singer and CEO of Women for Women and End Girl Hate LeAnne Dlamini said they love how heels make them feel, dainty and powerful.Leshabane says: I love heels and particularly pointed heels. I have had a bit of pain and developed a toe corn because of them. But I treated it as soon as I started seeing it come along. Leshabane added that she has never experienced any injuries due to wearing heels. I love heels. They are dainty, feminine and I feel classy. They lift me up and lift my mood. Wearing heels differ from woman to woman. Some wear them as a fashion statement to accentuate their height and some are dictated to by their careers.Dlamini adds that wearing heels is a personal preference and career requirement adding that she is not aware of any health implications associated with the prolonged use of high heels.She also says she has never experienced any injuries while walking in heels. Certain outfits just look better with heels and I almost always wear heels when I m performing. The songstress admits, however, that she prefers flats and sneakers and wears heels maybe two to three times a week. Wearing heels makes me feel more confident, sexy and powerful.Like I can take on the world. Still, it is interesting that a type of shoe that women adopted as a sign of defiance and a way to emasculate males, 30 years after men started using it, is now popular only among the female gender.Women took to wearing them as a sign of protest.KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE