TWO cases of violent attacks against women and children in Ngqamakwe, Eastern Cape, were concluded this week, with both perpetrators being sentenced to prison terms. The Tsomo Magistrate s Court on Tuesday sentenced an 18-year-old man to 10 years in prison for the rape of a three-year-old, which he committed when he was 15. The same court also sentenced Simphiwe Mbolekwa, 27, to 12 years in prison for the rape of a 23-year old woman in 2015. Just seven months ago, the area made headlines when 20-year-old Nonelwa Mdleleni disappeared on her way home from school, leading to a frantic week long search by the police and community. The Grade 12 pupil s body was found by a group of boys hidden in a donga in the forest where they were hunting. Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority says the sentence imposed on Sinethemba Mhlakaza for killing an Ethiopian shop owner sends a strong message to the public that foreign nationals who are in South Africa, either legally or illegally, are also human beings and are equally protected by the criminal justice system. Mhlakaza, 29, was sentenced to life imprisonment by the Ngcobo Regional Court this week for shooting Arwaro Makenko Dambela, 31, dead at Miya village in 2014. According to the NPA, Mhlakaza and his two friends were going to rob Dambela s shop. Their plan was first to do a survey by sitting outside the targeted shop and buying liquor from inside. However, as the trio was about to leave after doing the survey, Mhlakaza entered the shop as if to buy cigarettes. Shortly thereafter, gunshots were heard, people ran for cover and his two co-conspirators entered the shop and found their friend holding a firearm and the deceased lying in a pool of blood. The trio then ransacked the shop, took R1 300 in cash, five bottles of brandy and four packets of tobacco and fled the scene, the NPA said. Mhlakaza had pleaded not guilty to the crime but his friends both admitted guilt and testified against him. There were also witnesses who saw him entering the shop. The two friends were granted indemnity from prosecution for their testimony. Mhlakaza was sentenced to life imprisonment, the NPA said. TNA REPORTER