A Tshwane Metro traffic officer was found guilty of corruption by the Cullinan Magistrate s Court yesterday for soliciting a R100 bribe.Sebo Mathabatha, 38, pleaded guilty to soliciting the bribe from an undercover agent of the National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit. She was charged under the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act of 2004. The incident happened on December 19, 2015 during the festive season road safety campaign. Mathabatha and a colleague were conducting a law enforcement operation on Moloto Road when she stopped the agent for overtaking on a barrier line, Arrive Alive said in a statement.Mathabatha is expected back in court on the March 29 for the magistrate to consider a pre-sentencing report.Arrive Alive said the conviction proved that there were consequences for unethical and unprofessional conduct within the traffic law enforcement environment. This should serve to encourage members of the public to report bribery and corruption on 0861400800 or ntacu@rtmc.co.za, the entity said.The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) said the case underlined traffic authorities commitment to ensuring that all cases of bribery and corruption are followed through, no matter how long it takes to finalise them. Meanwhile, a warrant of arrest has been issued against a Mooi River licensing official after he failed to appear in court in connection with the fraudulent issuing of licences the RTMC said. Skhumbuzo Samson Ndlovu was supposed to appear in the Durban Commercial Crime Court on January 30 together with a driving school instructor from Estcourt. Ndlovu conspired with the driving school instructor to have licences fraudulently issued to drivers. The case has been postponed to March 30, 2017, the RTMC said.The transport department has been on a campaign to root out corruption and urged motorists not to bribe law enforcement officials. It has directed law enforcement officers to adopt zero tolerance against motorists who break the law.Transport Minister Dipuo Peters has urged motorists to stop paying bribes. Once you stop paying bribes, once you stop giving money for cold drinks, we ll be able to make sure that we reduce the road carnage, she said.Members of the public are urged to do the responsible thing and report the solicitation of bribes immediately, instead of paying them.NONDUMISO ZWANEnews@thenewage.co.za