Rising incidents of pupils without proper documentation being denied access to basic education in some schools in Gauteng and Eastern Cape might just be the tip of the iceberg.A primary school in Katlehong has a list of 187 children, which The New Age is in possession of, it believes were placed through the use of fraudulently acquired birth certificates and fake addresses.The Lawyers for Human Rights (LHR) has also revealed that it is dealing with a case in the Eastern Cape where 66 children are out of school because of the same problem. This thing is all over the place, especially at this time of the year. We have been dealing with these cases. In the Eastern Cape, 66 children are not going to school yet and we are challenging their admission policy, it is unconstitutional, Liesl Muller of the LHR said.This development comes on the back of the reaction of fury to a letter circulated on social media informing all foreign parents that their children would not be allowed onto school premises today if they could not prove their documentation was in order.Eastleigh Primary School in Edenvale summoned parents on Wednesday to verify documents after suspecting that some were not in order. Every parent needs to bring in the originals to be verified as we have some fraudulent documents. Parents have until Friday, February 24 to bring them in if not your child or children will not be allowed on government school property as from Monday, February 27, 2017 the school said in a letter dated February 22, 2017.The letter further read: If any foreign child arrives here on Monday we will phone the police to come and collect your child and you can collect your child at the police station. These are direct instructions from the Department of Home Affairs. The Department of Home Affairs confirmed its officials visited the school on February 17 as the schools requested.Department spokesperson Thabo Mokgola said officials only told the school to verify the documents of both parents and pupils but had nothing to do with the threat to hand pupils over to the police. The subsequent element that they listed in the letter were instructions by the school and not by the Department of Home Affairs, he said.Muller said the move was completely unconstitutional. Those kids have the right to education. It is compulsory for them to go to school, you can t discriminate against children when it comes to education, Muller said.Gauteng department of education spokesperson Oupa Bodibe said the school had been instructed to withdraw the threat to hand over undocumented kids to the police.The Africa Diaspora Forum (ADF) is set to engage with the school today. We are going to engage with the principal tomorrow after we saw the letter circulating on social media. We have a similar case in Katlehong where 187 kids are threatened to be thrown out of school because of the same issue, ADF chairperson Marc Gbaffou said.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za