The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) says that it is concerned with reports of violence directed at foreign nationals and of destruction of property. This comes after about thirty shops were damaged and looted in Atteridgeville and Lotus Gardens late on Monday. Atteridgeville police spokesperson Captain Bongi Msimango said that police are investigating. More than 20 shops were looted on Monday night and we not sure what could have started the looting and it started here in Atteridgeville and it escalated to lotus gardens, said Msimango Over the weekend at least three houses were destroyed as a result of community violence in Pretoria West and a further twelve had been destroyed in Rosettenville . Msimango said that the three suspects have been arrested and the situation is under control. So far three suspects were arrested as the Police we manage to control the situation, said Msimango. Gushwell Brooks from SAHRC said that as an institution they condemn such violent acts. Such incidents violate human rights and leave entire families homeless and destitute and do not afford due process such as arrest, trial and defense for those accused by communities, said Brooks Furthermore it is reported that a community organisation known as the Mamelodi Concerned Residents distributed flyers calling on community members to take on the march for this coming Friday the 24th against foreign Nationals . On the flyer they mentioned the rate of unemployment and where must South Africans work. Communities in both cities have cited their concerns with high levels of crime linked to drugs and an alleged failure of the South African Police Service (SAPS) to respond adequately said the commission SAHRC said it recognises the negative impact that crime has on communities and calls upon the SAPS to actively and effectively police and investigate the crimes communities have highlighted in their ongoing complaints. Mark Gbaffou from the African Diaspora said that they are concerned about the situation which seems to be getting worse very fast. We are calling upon the South African Government to take all necessary steps to prevent attacks on foreign nationals and we are encouraging all stakeholders and community members to report any criminal activity to the police and avoid taking the law into their own hands said Gbaffou Gbaffou added that We are calling upon migrants, South African citizens, concerned residents, who want to prevent this, to come out and help calm the situation, said Gbaffou. We further ask that leaders within these communities take a stance against xenophobia and display the leadership necessary to create social cohesion and safe communities for all said Brooks The xenophobic march planned by Mamelodi Concerned residents is set to take place on 24th February. TNA Reporter 