Dodging the bullet of high unemployment in their countries, women end up begging on the streets together with their children.Speaking to women on the street, several said they fled their countries seeking greener pastures. I came to South Africa trying to run away from hunger. But I found myself having to beg at the robots so my children can have something to eat before they go to bed, Faith Chauke said.The 28-year-old Zimbabwean said she moved from one robot to another on a daily basis. Next to her were her three children aged from two and seven. I do not have a spot that I have under my name since days are different. It is not guaranteed that I will be on this one tomorrow, Chauke said.She has been in South Africa for 12 years. Due to growing up without a mother s care I did not see why I should stay at home and starve. According to a news research compiled by European Interagency Security Forum (EISF), from 2008 thousands of Zimbabweans left the country. There are about 4 million Zimbabweans living abroad, most illegally in surrounding countries where their presence is creating socio-economic pressures on, and tensions with local communities, the EISF said.Precious Mtomba, who sits with her son at the Nelson Mandela Drive robots in Pretoria, said she has been in the country for nine months and started begging three months ago. I came here through an invitation. Someone close to me told me that there are jobs in the country but when I got here, things did not turn out as planned, Mtomba said.A visit to Mtomba s work station was a shock as the news team found her sitting with her one-year-old son who had swollen feet.Mtomba said her son fell in the drain by the corner a week ago, and I am unable to take him to the clinic as getting help there takes forever .It is believed that some women use their children as a tool to get sympathy from the people passing by and who may offer them money.Section 28 of the Constitution states: Every child has the right to a name and a nationality from birth, to family care or parental care, or to appropriate alternative care when removed from the family environment, to basic nutrition, shelter, basic healthcare services and social services, to be protected from maltreatment, neglect, abuse or degradation. Liesl Muller of Lawyers for Human Rights said the best interests of the child were to be used as a guideline. One of them is for a child to remain with its parents. If the mother sees a way of having her children works for her, it s still better for the children to be with the mother, Muller said.Chauke said she sits with her children who are school going age school because the school denied them space due to no documentation.However Muller said the Constitution said: Every child has a right to education, whether they are in the country legally or illegally. Busi Kheswa at Gauteng s social development department said if parents needed assistance they must visit their nearest departments. Parents can be referred to nearby social development and/or home affairs to be assisted and if further services are needed they will be referred to the relevant stakeholder, Kheswa said.EISF states: Zimbabwe is facing an imminent crisis that will require an international humanitarian response in the near to medium-term future, with appropriate security measures for humanitarian workers. CHARLOTE HLANGWANEnews@thenewage.co.za