&nbsp;South Africa s unemployment rate retreated from its highest in 13 years in the fourth quarter of last year as key sectors hired more workers, a further sign of recovery in an economy that had been threatened with recession in 2016. The improvement gives hope for a sustained turnaround of the trend of job losses over the past six years. The domestic economy created 235 000 jobs bringing down the rate of unemployment to 26.5%, from 27.1%, an increase of 1.5% of employment in the quarter. However, the unemployment rate still remains high when compared to the 24.5% in the same period in 2015. The decline in unemployment in this category occurred across all age groups. The expanded definition of unemployment, which includes people who have stopped looking for work, also decreased, to 35.6% from 36.3% in the previous quarter. The numbers favoured the rand, which gained 1.54% to trade at R13.13/$ three hours after Stats SA release the data having started the morning trade at R13.28/$. Later in the afternoon the rand continued to shine, gaining 1.92% to hit R13.07/$, knocking at the R12/$ level. The Quarterly Labour Force Survey (QLFS) said for the fourth quarter published by Stats SA yesterday, the latest positive development amounted to 5.781 million people without jobs in the fourth quarter compared with 5.873 million previously. Stats SA said the growth in employment was mainly driven by the services industry and the transport and manufacturing sectors. The QLFS is a quarterly household survey specifically designed to measure the dynamics of employment and unemployment in South Africa, including the informal sector and small-scale subsistence farmers. Experts said the 1.5% increase in employment came as a surprise and this might mean that it s a great time for job seekers to start looking and applying for jobs as the domestic economy is likely to even surpass the projected growth of 1.3% this year. One can take some satisfaction from the latest data. Following a horrific loss of 473000 jobs in the first half of last year, a gain of 288 000 jobs in the third quarter has been followed by a further 235000 job gains in the fourth quarter, Azar Jammine, chief economist at Econometrix, said. Jammine said the latest figure is barely different from the underlying growth of the economy during the quarter, for which data are still awaited, but it is generally expected that overall GDP growth for last year will not have been much in excess of this figure. Kevin Lings, Stanlib chief economist, said the increase in employment during the fourth quarter was enough to bring the overall rate of unemployment down but overall the unemployment rate remains exceedingly high. BERNARD SATHEKGE | bernards@thenewage.co.za