RADICAL economic transformation is not a campaign strategy for toying with the minds of the electorate, ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu said yesterday. Speaking on the sidelines of President Jacob Zuma s state of the nation address in Parliament, Mthembu said the key theme of economic transformation contained in the ANC s January 8 statement and a key factor in Zuma s programme of action for the year, was not a rhetorical platitude, but a road map towards broadening participation of the country s members of designated groups in the socio-economic mainstream. We don t do anything with an election in mind. When we fought for the liberation of our people there was no election and we were prepared to lose our lives. Therefore, when we want changes in the social and economic aspects of our people s lives, we have no election agenda in mind, it s the right thing to do. How can you have a country of 55 million people and 50 million of those people do not have ownership of the economy of the country? We might have been a little bit slow that s why as the ANC we are saying we must be radical now in this economic transformation. Mthembu s comments come against the backdrop of debate on economic transformation gaining momentum since the ANC s January 8 statement as well as the party national executive committee lekgotla last month. Zuma s Cabinet held a lekgotla and the question of the economy was expected to form the mainstay of the discussions. Mthembu said that following Zuma s outline of the government s programme of action for the year, the ANC would work towards using political power as a lever to balance the playing field of economic participation for the black majority. We do have political power but the majority of our people who are black and female still do not own the productive assets of our country. Therefore, how do we fundamentally channel the system institutions in favour of our people? We must make use of that political power, make use of the instruments we have to transform the economy for all South Africans. Mthembu decried the hardened resistance against black ownership on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. He said that it was an indictment of society that blacks still remained on the bottom rung of the ladder of economic development. Even on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange less than 3% ownership is accounted for by blacks. In a country that has more than 50 million people who are black and you only have 3% ownership of the economy, it can t be correct, he said. Mthembu, switching to the outrage expressed by opposition political parties objecting to 441 South African National Defence Force members being deployed for the Sona, stressed that the soldiers would not set their boots within the grounds of Parliament I ve been here in Parliament. There were no soldiers. I m in Parliament, I don t know whether you ve seen any soldiers, there are no soldiers. This is not a military barracks, this is a Parliament of the people of South Africa. Therefore I will not see my president deploy soldiers here because there is no need for such. BONOLO SELEBANO&nbsp;