As Gavin Hunt plans to turn Bidvest Wits into a continental force, he couldn t have asked for a sterner test than facing Egyptian giants Al Ahly early in the competition.Wits defeated Reunion Island side Saint Louisinne 3-1 at home at the weekend to win the CAF Champions League preliminary round 4-3 on aggregate. It was perhaps fitting Daine Klate, Sifiso Myeni and Cuthbert Malajila provided the goals which got the team closer to the group stages, the trio having boasting Champions League experience through spells with Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns.Goalkeeper Moeneeb Josephs is another experienced campaigner on the continent to share his experience with some young players. Though the players have seen limited game time in the Premiership this season, it seems like the coach is planning to use them more in the Champions League.Through the win, the students proceeded to the first round of the competition and have set a date with African giants Al Ahly, who are the most successful team with eight Champions League titles. Our record is not great in Africa, we know that. We lost in the knock-out a year before, Hunt said. We re certainly going to be more competitive this year, which we have been in the past four years on the local scene. We have won a trophy and competed in a final. Despite describing Wits as a small team, Hunt has players in his squad who are experienced campaigners on the continent. It takes experience to play there and some of our players have played in Africa before. We need to be clever and box clever, the coach said.The first leg will see Wits travelling to Cairo next month to try prove that they can match the best on the continent. Certainly we are not going in with a change of mentality. The biggest thing in Africa is attitude and mentality. You have got to be strong, Hunt said. If the students manage to beat Al Ahly they will proceed to the group stages of the competition.Tomorrow, third placed Wits will return to their league fixtures by entertaining the struggling Baroka FC at home. The Premiership rookies recently suspended their technical team which was led by coach Jacob Jakala. Former coach Kgoloko Thobejane will be on the bench for Bakgaga. The match will kick off at 7.30pm.-Sithembiso Dindi|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za