The money owed by former public protector Thuli Madonsela for repairs to a state vehicle crashed by her son in 2012 has been deducted from her gratuity.Public protector Busi Mkhwebane s spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, confirmed the office had withheld the equivalent of the money required by G-Fleet when paying her gratuity, which is in the region of R4m.Although Segalwe would not be drawn into disclosing the amount withheld, sources within the office said the bill was about R750000. The amount in question was withheld from the former public protector s gratuity payment. The office was subsequently advised to seek an opinion from the state attorney on whether she is indeed liable or whether that amount should be released to her, Segalwe said.When contacted for comment yesterday, Madonsela said she was not able to talk. The public protector s office contacted G-Fleet in December to get the itemised bill for the repairs from the panelbeater, which it submitted.This was after a series of articles by The New Age.G-Fleet is the Gauteng department of transport s fleet management service provider.Subsequent to that, Mkhwebane wrote to Madonsela requesting her to pay for repair work to the BMW X6.Madonsela is on record as saying authorisation had not been sought from her to deduct anything from her gratuity. In fact, when asked about the possibility of the money being deducted from her gratuity in October, she said it was the first time she had hear of such an intention. I have no idea on what basis or authority would that be done, Madonsela said at the time.She previously claimed she was cleared of any wrongdoing in the matter by the auditor-general and G-Fleet, something both organisations denied. Both the auditor-general and G-Fleet found that I had not authorised the use of the car. No one has told me they now intend to hold me liable and on what basis they seek to do so. Madonsela said she was not held accountable because she did not give MONEY OWED ON CAR REPAIR BILL DEDUCTED FROM FINAL GRATUITY her son permission to drive the car. That matter was dealt with by the auditor-general and came to the conclusion that I was not involved. I was sleeping and didn t give instructions for the car to be used. However, the auditor-general s spokesperson, Africa Boso, repeatedly said the office did not investigate the matter as it had no impact on the public protector s financial statements.Her son, Wantu, 27, drove into the garden wall of a house on Lucky Bean Crescent near Moreleta Park in Pretoria four years ago.According to the judges handbook, which applies to the public protector, her son could only drive it when she was a passenger in the car.G-Fleet said it started sending invoices mid-2012 but to no avail. At some point during her tenure, Madonsela s finance office advised her to pay the money in instalments of R13 000, but she allegedly refused.Segalwe said Madonsela only donated R30000 towards repairs, but it remains unclear who the money was paid to.MTHOKOZISI DUBE