Clearwater Mall in Roodepoort, was praised for being one of the safest malls in Gauteng. The mall s general manager, Lauren Meyer, said over the past two years they have upgraded their CCTV systems and installed gripper bars or spikes at the entrances and exits of the mall.Although the spikes and bars have caused a little inconvenience in terms of speedy entrance and exit from the mall ground, it is such efforts that would deter criminals and frustrate their efforts to commit crime, he said. From the mall s side we have over the past three years upgraded our CCTV systems and the installation of the gripper bars and spikes has definitely contributed to making the mall safer albeit at a cost of convenience in terms of speedy entrance and exit from the mall grounds, Meyer said.Early this year, Gauteng police spokesperson Lt-Col Mack Mngomezulu labelled Clearwater Mall as the safest in the province. He said it was their desire to collaborate with patrons and all other law enforcement agencies in a bid to ensure safety for shoppers. This mall is one of the safest around Gauteng. It is our desire to collaborate with patrons and all other law enforcement agencies in a bid to ensure safety for shoppers. Shopping malls are meant to be a crime free environment where patrons feel free to walk, do business and shop without fear, Mngomezulu said. Responding to the compliments Meyer said she was proud to get accolades from Gauteng community safety MEC and would never have claimed this accolade despite being proud of the statistics they achieved. We really appreciate the support received over the festive season and believe the visible police presence which was supplied to all malls in the festive and holiday seasons certainly helped. Gauteng community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane had been reported as saying she was encouraged by the manner in which Clearwater Mall was taking charge of its safety by recording an incident-free festive season for mall robberies, smash and grabs and common robberies. What makes the mall safe is largely attributed to the high visibility of the police, complemented by a force multiplier comprising community patrollers, Gauteng traffic police officers and metro police officers, Nkosi-Malobane said.The safest mall in the province is home to 239 shops and is a premier shopping destination in the north western suburbs of Johannesburg on the rapidly expanding residential corridor along Hendrik Potgieter Drive. Even though the mall reported that in 2004 it was losing customers because of taxi wars around the centre, Meyer said: The 2004 taxi violence which was referred to, occurred outside of the mall in Hendrik Potgieter Drive and it had no impact on the mall other than inconveniencing tenants and workers coming to the mall. He also said their cooperation as well as proactive communication from their security team on site, in conjunction with the support received and excellent relations built up with the police in the area, had definitely helped and we will be sure to continue this going forward . Our security team will continue to maintain the relations built with the police force and we will continue to maintain systems in place and to improvise and proactively meet new challenges as they arise, Meyer said.-Charlote Hlangwane|provinces@thenewage.co.za 