Gatanang Secondary School took the initiative of having a supply of emergency sanitary pads to ensure that female pupils did not miss school during menstruation.Girls from disadvantaged backgrounds miss up to 50 days of school a year because they do not have access to pads. Gatang Secondary School, in Mamelodi east of Pretoria has 800 female pupils.Johannah Sefara who is a teacher at the school said most of the children at the school came from needy families . We always have standby sanitary pads that we keep for emergencies. If a girl has a problem she comes to my office and asks for them, Sefara said.Mimi Women in partnership with Innovative Solutions Group (ISG) visited the school early in February to offer its assistance. Mimi, formally known as Happy Days, is a proudly South African, locally produced sanitary pad distributed among historically disadvantaged communities to keep girls in school.According to Mimi founder and CEO Ramona Kasavan, one in three female pupils miss 50 days of school in one year due to not having sanitary pads.Head of CSI at ISG Liza Trollip said they shared the same vision with former president Nelson Mandela. We believe that education is the most powerful weapon, one should work hard and be dedicated and the only way to do it is by staying in school, Trollip said.She also urged female pupils to attend school every day. There are reports of girls missing school during menstruation because they come from homes that cannot afford to buy them sanitary towels each month. Rather than face the discomfort of going to a school that does not have proper ablution blocks for use during this time, the girls elect to sit at home and go through the cycle using a banana leaf, a piece of tissue or sitting on top of a bucket filled with dirty water, Mimi says.Speaking to The New Age, female pupils at Gatang were relieved and happy about the initiative taken by the school, ISG and Mimi. Some said they learnt about menstruation at school rather than at home. I learnt about menstruation and how to use sanitary pads when (I started having a period) during my primary school years, Ofentse Montlha said.The 15 year old said that she only started having conversations about menstruation after her first period since she had nowhere to turn to. When I first saw my period my mum was working night shift and I called her to say I needed sanitary pads then she left work to come advise me on what steps to take, Montlha said.Another pupil said that during her first days, instead of talking to her mother, she found comfort from a friend who told her this is what we as girls go through . I was scared to tell my mum because back in the townships when you talk to your mum about menstruation, the first thing she thinks is that you have started participating in sexual activities, the pupil said.Many girls are faced with challenges of missing school because they do not have sanitary pads. Trollip emphasised the importance of getting an education. Inspire yourself so that other people can be inspired by you, she said.Mimi aims to distribute more than 1 million sanitary pads in rural areas by the end of this year.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEnews@thenewage.co.za