Seven budding Soweto artists have shared R37000 in prizes in a steel art competition linked to the development of the multimillion-rand Jabulani Cultural Precinct in Soweto.The development is being spearheaded by the Johannesburg Property Company (JPC), the City of Johannesburg s property management entity.The JPC, invited young Soweto artists to submit designs of street furniture, gateways, sculptures, architectural follies and landmark signage to be translated into steel sculptures for permanent features of the cultural precinct.They were chosen from hundreds of entrants and afforded the opportunity to work with the JPC to turn their drawings into sculptures. They expressed their talents through the steel dismantled from the original amphitheatre.The JPC CEO, Helen Botes, said the original structure was dismantled to meet today s health and safety standards. The material was then used for the art challenge. This is an exciting opportunity for Soweto-based artists to make a name for themselves and be a part of history. It s the city s objective to encourage active citizenry and we hope this will open doors and opportunities for them in the future, he said.Moeketsi Makhetha, who won the R5000 first prize in the gateway category with his piece titled Vuka Soweto, described his work as a functional piece with which one could play around. He said the steel was not painted to keep its authenticity. This piece has a poignant message reflecting that what was once built by the apartheid government had its challenges. We are rebuilding it, one piece at a time, and everybody is making sure Soweto is rising. He said the competition had contributed to skills development among artists. The new Jabulani Cultural Precinct will have a new-look amphitheatre, a music school, a restaurant and an artistic hub that will bring creatives together in one space. It will consist of a 3000-seater auditorium, rehearsal studios, new performance stages and an outdoor gym.KUTULLO MADISHAkutullom@thenewage.co.za