TO MANY, Cape Town City is a side that can only challenge the PSL pace setters, while the likes of Bidvest Wits, Mamelodi Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs and SuperSport United are seen as genuine title contenders.That is a notion City striker Lehlohonolo Majoro does not buy into. As things stand, the Eric Tinkler coached Cape Town outfit is second on the PSL log with 32 points, one point behind log leaders Chiefs. Wits, SuperSport and Sundowns all complete the top five and have played fewer games than City. The talented striker, who was in the thick of things when City drew 2-2 with his former side Orlando Pirates, warned that anyone writing off City should do so at their own peril. It goes without saying that we believe in our chances to win the league. We have the players, the experience and the talent to go all the way. Everyone said we will implode when we went for the Telkom Knockout and look what happened in the end, Majoro said. Even now, we still believe we can win the league. There is no pressure on our part and that makes it easier. But we will not sit and be happy with the cup we won because people don t expect a lot from us. We as Cape Town City players and the coach expect a lot from ourselves. We have to be confident and fight because it will be hard. If we can beat Sundowns and get points against Pirates, that means we have what it takes. Majoro further paid a huge compliment to City teammates Aubrey Ngoma and in form captain Lebogang Manyama, who have been scoring valuable goals for the club. Majoro has scored three times in 17 matches, while Manyama has 10 to his name. Everyone is looking at how great Lebo is doing, scoring valuable goals for us, while Aubrey is providing the assists. Of course, we pride ourselves in working as a team, but when individuals are this brilliant, you have to take your hat off for them. I am only praying that we continue this way. I also want to score goals for my team and ease the pressure because that is my job. City will have the week off as they prepare for the Nedbank Cup, while their next league fixture will be in 13 days time away to basement boys Baroka FC in Polokwane. Meanwhile, Bloemfontein Celtic recorded their first win of 2017, defeating 10-man Chippa United 2-0 at the Dr Molemela Stadium yesterday. Vusi Shikweni and Musa Nyatama scored the goals for Siwelele.-Reuters