THE PSL have strongly condemned acts of hooliganism witnessed at Loftus Versfeld Stadium as fans went on the rampage at the weekend. Chaotic scenes broke out as Mamelodi Sundowns humiliated rivals Orlando Pirates 6-0 in their league match, prompting irate Bucs fans to storm the pitch to vent their anger. The PSL issued a statement yesterday condemning the violence. Action is expected to be taken against those who were involved in the violence. We are investigating a case of malicious damage to property, public violence and assault. As part of the investigation, we would like to identify those involved and make arrests, police spokesperson Kay Makhubela said.The PSL will also be expected to take action against Pirates for the violence and disruption, which forced the game to be halted for about an hour. The PSL said it is awaiting reports from various stakeholders, including the match commissioner. Pirates will also address a press conference today where they are expected to address among other issues, the unsavoury acts which have tarnished the image of local football and the future of the technical team.It is unclear whether or not interim coach Augusto Palacios will continue in his role. He did not return for the remainder of the match on Saturday, as he was heartbroken and left his assistants Bradley Carnell and Benson Mhlongo to take charge. Mhlongo further issued a heartfelt apology to the fans for yet another defeat in which the Bucs conceded six goals, having sunk to a 6-1 league loss to SuperSport United in November. The PSL strongly condemns acts of hooliganism by some of the fans at the Mamelodi Sundowns v Orlando Pirates Absa Premiership fixture at Loftus Stadium on Saturday afternoon, the PSL statement said. The league apologises to all the supporters and stakeholders, those who were at the stadium and also those watching on TV, who were inconvenienced by what happened. Such behaviour at our stadiums is a bad advert for our football. Referee Daniel Bennett stopped the game in the 82nd minute amid pandemonium as both sets of players ran back to the change rooms for refuge. But calm returned an hour later and following a meeting between the VOC commander, the match commissioner and the two clubs and after careful assessment of the situation, a decision was taken to resume play.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha