Gauteng continues to attract the majority of the country s first-time home buyers.Despite the tough economic climate, there is an ongoing demand for accommodation and properties to purchase for first-time home buyers. The most attractive properties among this group are houses and townhouses in the price range below R1m.Pam Golding Properties regional head of Gauteng, Rupert Finnemore, said Gauteng remained South Africa s economic heartland and consequently attracted people from around the country and the African continent looking for economic opportunities.Finnemore said the province supported a rapidly growing population, which meant it was always likely there would be a demand for residential property from first-time buyers. Gauteng has a young population profile and attracts the majority of South Africa s first-time home buyers. They form an important component of, and assist to support, the housing market in the province. This demand means that the property market in the lower price bands, below R1m, continues to be highly active in Gauteng. First-time buyers support particularly active local housing markets in areas such as Midrand, Randburg, Bryanston and Morningside and former townships such as Soweto, Finnemore said.Finnemore said the new properties required no transfer fees and many could be secured as investments at affordable prices. Young up-and-coming professionals are also taking advantage of the opportunities available to purchase upmarket sectional title apartment developments in centres such as Sandton, Rosebank and Menlyn in Pretoria. These new properties require no transfer fees and many can be secured as investments at affordable prices. Finnemore said first-time buyers in Gauteng came from all ages and backgrounds, although many tended to be between 25 and 35 with young families. Bond originator ooba said during the third quarter of 2016, 73% of all of the first-time bond applications received were from black South Africans.FNB household and property strategist John Loos said being by far the largest economy in SA, Gauteng was where many middle-to-higher income young people launched their working careers.So while the Western Cape attracted a lot of older repeat home buyers, Gauteng did very well on inward migration of younger working people who converted into first-time home buyers. Gauteng and the Western Cape are neck and neck as the fastest economic growth regions in SA, and thus the best job creators for new labour market entrants (the other seven provinces being weaker in this regard). Add to this, on average Gauteng skilled labour salaries are probably the best, while average Gauteng home values are cheaper than at least the Western Cape. This translates into arguably the most affordable region for first-time home buyers (affordability as measured by house price/income ratio), more affordable than the smaller and cheaper provinces due to Gauteng s better incomes, Loos said.INDIE BOYCEindiphileb@thenewage.co.za