THE Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) is set to start off the 2017 academic year on a strained financial footing as it tries to recoup the millions of rands owed to them in outstanding fees. The university has accumulated R122.5m in debt, with more than R99.3m accumulated last year alone.This means the institution is set to start the year with the operational budget short of R68m, making it necessary to use its investment income to break even. NMMU spokesperson Zandile Mbabela, said because of the outstanding debt, coupled with pressure to allow students to register with outstanding debt there were added constraints to universities cash flow, especially the start of the year. It would therefore be of great financial detriment to the university to make blanket concessions to exempt all students from paying the initial down payments and register with outstanding debt, Mbabela said. There is ongoing engagement on arising student finance matters through the Financial Aid Task Team, which is chaired by DVC: Institutional Support Sibongile Muthwa. The task team s mandate is to roll out any financial aid concessions that council or Manco resolve on that fall outside the standard annual financial aid or bursary allocations. Most of the country s universities, which are collectively owed R2bn, will feel the pressure of outstanding debt. NMMU has called on those with outstanding debt to settle it as far as possible before to registration.Mbabela said personal agreements would be entered into on a case-by-case basis. Of the amount owed to NMMU, students with zero expected contribution from family who were not funded by NSFAS in 2016 account for R34.1m, while R7m is debt owed by the university-defined missing middle students (families who earn no more than R300000).The rest of the money is owed by students not falling within the NMMU-defined missing middle. Those who qualified for zero expected contribution in 2016 will be allowed to register with outstanding debt and be exempt from paying the down payments, only if they continue to be academically deserving. Students falling within the government-defined missing middle those whose annual household income is not more than R600000 are eligible for an adjustment grant that effectively covers the 8% fee increase announced by the university last year, Mbabela said. This grant covers only the difference between the 2016 and current fees, and not the full amount. In other words, these students do not have to pay the 8% increase themselves as it will be subsidised by government. Mbabela said those whose combined family income was below the prescribed R600000 should apply as soon as possible to receive the grant. Students from the NMMU-defined missing middle will, however, not be allowed to register while having outstanding debt and without paying the down payment. The university would, however, consider entering into personal one-on-one agreements with students from this cohort in terms of making appropriate arrangements for outstanding financial commitments based on personal circumstances and academic merit, she said.LILLIAN SELAPISA