Defending PSL champions Mamelodi Sundowns are keen to sign Algerian left-back Fares Hachi.Coach Pitso Mosimane, who is assessing the 27 year old at a training camp in Tanzania, said the African champions had taken notice of Hachi during their match against Setif in the CAF Champions League last year. We observed him during our match analysis, you know us, we pulled many.Against Setif we identified him as a threat before the game and he was a direct threat during the game, Mosimane said. It happens that he is free from Setif and also wants to play in the Champions League. Remember that Setif are on suspension after the pitch invasion. It s a difficult one, to find a north African to come to the south and play, I think it will be the first or second one. What is good is we really like the player. I would like to sign him. Obviously the business side is with the club and his representatives. He was with us in Rustenburg. Meanwhile, struggling Free State Stars announced the signings of at least five players who they believe will bring about the needed experience to evade relegation.Former junior international Nhlakanipho Ntuli, who spent years in Holland with FC Twente, is the only high profile player brought in by new coach Serame Letsoaka.Others include former Maritzburg United striker Mohammed Anas, who had been playing in Swaziland, exBloemfontein Celtic defender Thabang Matuka, ex-Kaizer Chiefs defender Simphiwe Mtsweni and striker Allen Dorian Nono.The club also revealed that they have released, by mutual consent, Reabetsoe Rakoti, Tshepo Mothiba, David Booysen,Johnny Mathole, Brandon Dean, Hamis Kizza and Mohamed Aoudou. We have made use of the window period and the Afcon break in making sure that we assess and sign five quality players to strengthen the team. The team is now ready to compete in the second round of the season, Free State Stars general manager Rantsi Mokoena said. We were struggling to find the back of the net and we have brought in two quality strikers to help out Thokozani Sekotlong up front whose injury recovery is coming on well. We also struggled on the left hand side but we have also brought in two experienced players to compete there. LINDA XIMBAnews@thenewage.co.za