COSATU has vowed to continue with workplace visits in the province to address concerns raised by workers.Provincial secretary Anele Gxoyiya said the listening campaign afforded workers on the shop floor an opportunity to interact directly with the national leadership on the three visits they held last year in August, November and December.He said during the visits which included leaders from national such as deputy general secretary Solly Phetoe, general meetings unearthed a high level of exploitation of vulnerable workers. There are many challenges that we picked up and confronted the employers about. We were also shocked to learn that at this day and age there is still racism in the workplace and there are employers who physically abuse their employees, Gxoyiya said.He said as part of the revisit, they would inspect if there had been positive changes in the working conditions and treatment of workers. Our main responsibility is to confront all forms of abuse of workers without fear or favour. Workers who have challenges in the workplace are free to contact the provincial office of the labour federation, he said. Gxoyiya said challenges varied from workplace to workplace.However, they intended to address such as they continued to build a stronger federation and intensified membership service. Among the challenges uncovered by Cosatu during the workplace visits last year are violation of health and safety regulations and workers not being paid for overtime. In some hospitals and clinics nurses are not provided with basic tools of the trade, employers misuse section 189 of the Labour Relations Act. Some employers deduct the unemployment insurance fund from the salaries of the workers but fail to pay the department of labour, Gxoyiya said.The labour federation also accuse the departments of labour and mineral resources for failing to enforce compliance. During an outreach initiative by Cosatu in Kathu and Kuruman, discrimination in the workplace was singled out as one of the challenges.Gxoyiya said both local and national leaders were able to engage with workers on matters of concern in their respective workplaces. We can say the workers were excited to receive the leadership of Cosatu, the visits in both towns yielded positive results as it offered workers a platform to talk about their challenges against employers as well as the shop stewards, Gxoyiya said.Gxoyiya said more needed to be done to liberate workers in the retail sector where workers were still exploited.He said that they have been engaging workers in Shoprite, Spar and other shops. According to the labour federation in the province they will arrange meetings with employers to find lasting solutions to the challenges raised by the workers to ensure that safety and compliance in the workplace is prioritised.tiisetsom@thenewage.co.zaTIISETSO MANOKO