THEMBALETHU police station commander Col Reuben France has issued a stern warning against those who were leading mob justice attacks in Asazani informal settlement and around areas in Thembalethu township.The message to caution those involved comes after two separate incidents of mob attacks, where in both incidents victims were attacked with fists, sticks, pangas and bricks, by an angry crowd. During the attacks, the victims were accused of breaking into people s houses, theft and terrorising community members.Concerned residents said crowd attacks were gradually becoming com mon place in Thembalethu and Lawaaikamp.Police had to use stun grenades to disperse a crowd when an angry group of more than 100 people attacked two men aged 21 and 33 in Asazani informal settlement in Thembalethu township on Saturday afternoon.The two victims were accused of breaking into people s houses before being attacked with sticks, fists and bricks in full view of the public. Both men were rescued by police and later taken to hospital in an ambulance with serious head injuries and wounds to their lower bodies.In another incident on Sunday, a man was assaulted with hammers and pangas by a crowd in Tabata Street. The victim, in his late 20s, was pounced on by a crowd while walking in the street to his home. The mob dragged him to a spot where he was assaulted with hammers, pangas and sticks.When the police arrived at the scene, the mob refused to hand over their victim, a move which resulted in police firing stun grenades to rescue him. France said: The reason for the attacks on the victims is unknown.The police are waiting for the victims to open cases, so that those who take the law into their own hands can be arrested and prosecuted. We urge community members not to take the law into their own hands. It is against the law to do so. We thank those who called the police when criminal activities are committed. Residents have vowed to continue meting out punishment to criminals in what they called cleaning the streets of crime. We have had enough of crime. Nothing seems to change. Criminals are terrorising us, a 56-year-old man from Thembalethu said. Criminals are laws unto themselves.These are people who are breaking into our houses and stealing from us to feed their drug habits. We are fed up. MPUMI KIVA