The long-awaited and controversial revised mining charter will be published by next month, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane told the four-day Mining Indaba, which started in Cape Town yesterday.Zwane said the charter will be reflective of the views of stakeholders, in the interests of South Africa and provide for investor certainty . Mining companies have complained that the charter has created unnecessary confusion in the industry, which has frightened off investors who are looking for regulatory certainty before committing funds.Some analysts at the indaba responded positively to Zwane, who was officially opening the indaba, while others said the proposed charter was still confusing. Analyst Peter Major, director of mining at Cadiz, told The New Age: Convoluted legislation pushes investors away. Our ministers need to understand that you have to attract investment and to do that you have to beat another 200 countries out there.I don t know if they are pushing investors away or they just don t understand. And Peter Leon, Africa co-chair and partner at Herbert Smith Freehills, called for a fresh start for mining policy. Of greatest concern is the constitutional logjam, which now faces the progress of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Amendment Bill. The president referred the bill back to Parliament in January 2015 and the Department of Mineral Resources subsequently introduced a number of amendments to it in November when the bill was referred to the National Council of Provinces. The Mining Charter was introduced in 2002 to increase black ownership of the mining industry. The sector accounts for around 7% of South Africa s economic output. The latest draft of the charter, which requires companies to keep black ownership at a constant 26% even if black shareholders sell their stakes, has received massive criticism. This was encapsulated in the Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry, led by President Jacob Zuma and signed by stakeholders in 2013, Zwane said. Despite the criticism, Zwane yesterday found favour in Andrew Lane, Africa mining leader for Deloitte, who said his speech was positive. It was positive to hear Minister Zwane appeal to investors and government alike, to acknowledge and help drive the concept of shared prosperity . Hearing the minister promote government s opendoor policy was very encouraging. Minister Zwane reinforced the government s commitment to beneficiation but there is a need for the government to articulate that it knows it is not a challenge that can be addressed by the mining sector alone, but rather a joint effort by a wider set of stakeholders. Black South Africans make up 80% of the 54 million population, yet most of the economy in terms of ownership of land and companies remains in the hands of whites, who account for around 8% of the population.Zwane said: The final mining charter will be reflective of the views of stakeholders, in the interests of South Africa and provide for investor certainty. We call upon investors to come to South Africa and engage us frankly as we move towards transformation of our economy. We will continue to have an open door policy. -Samuel Mungadze|samuelm@thenewage.co.za 