The Eastern Cape, which has a history of delivering poor medical healthcare to workers, has reported a steady decrease in infant mortality. Figures show there has been a steady decrease in deaths of babies younger than 12 months old, over a three-year period from 2014 to 2016.Some 3167 deaths were reported in 2014 and 2649 in 2015. The number reduced further by more than 400 in 2016 at 1694, said the Institute of Race Relations (IRR) in its latest South African Survey published last month.The Institute said there had been a marked decrease in child mortality rates throughout SA, which was indicative of improved child health in the country.It found that in 2015, the under-five mortality rate had declined. The institute also found that deaths of infants under one year of age had also declined.The IRR said poor access to health care services especially immunisation programmes, malnutrition and poor living conditions were three of the leading contributors to child deaths.Health MEC Pumza Dyantyi, speaking during the official opening of an infrastructure development initiative and the handing over of medical equipment worth more than R14m to the Mthatha Regional Hospital confirmed infant mortality rates had been curbed in the province. The reason for the reduction in the number of dead babies was because our wards have been equipped with advanced high-care and life support machines. This change has been brought about because of the high number of patients suing the health department for negligence, she said.Health spokesperson Sizwe Kupela confirmed the number of infant deaths in the Eastern Cape had decreased and this was also confirmed by superintendent-general Dr Tholi Mbengashe.Mbengashe said infrastructure development initiatives at the hospital had contributed to the decrease in infant mortality. Reducing the maternal and infant mortality rate continues to be the priority of the health department. The highest mortality rate occurs with premature babies that need quality machines and equipment to help with their survival, Mbengashe said.The department said it hoped the improved infrastructure would prevent litigations, reduce overcrowding and reduce infant mortality.He said the problem that remained was with pregnant women or mothers in the rural areas who did everything for their babies but did not bring them to the hospital. We would have a much lower infant mortality rate in the province if people would bring their babies to the hospital when they are sick, Mbengashe said.He said the infections were caused by infections related to air pollution and problems of nutrition. Mbengashe said they had done well in taking care of pregnant women with HIV-Aids in making sure they received treatment to prevent transmission to their babies. We make sure the 90% of the women who give birth at hospitals do so under the care of a midwife. In the next 12 months after birth the babies must be taken care. SISANDA MADWANTSIprovinces@thenewage.co.za