A proposal by a group of ANC stalwarts and veterans who are signatories to the For the Sake of our Future document, for the party to convene a national consultative conference is losing traction.Speaking at a meeting between the ANC national working committee (NWC) and representatives of the veterans and a group of former MK combatants at the St George s conference centre in Irene, near Tshwane, ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said that the onus was now on the veterans to present logical reasons as to why the consultative conference should be separated from the ANC s national policy conference in June.Duarte said that the ANC would stick to it guns to have the consultative conference incorporated into the party s policy conference. We then requested this meeting with them so that we could get clarity but also to reassert the decision of our national executive committee (NEC). The NEC has made that decision. It takes a lot of work to put together national conferences, she said. The ANC is an organisation of branches and we take our collective mandate from them, so it s going to be a meeting to discuss whether they can motivate and explain the urgency for a de-linking because there seems to be no political logic. Duarte s comments come against the background of the stalwarts and veterans rejecting an ANC proposal that a national consultative conference be held two days before the party s policy conference.Duarte said that while the ANC did not object to convening a national consultative conference, the ANC proposed that it be held two days before its policy conference. The NEC of the ANC agreed to do so but we said we needed to do it two days before our policy conference because that s within the organisation s sphere of putting things together, she said. This group (stalwarts) then went to their own meeting to consult with other individuals and they then decided that they must ask us to actually de-link the national consultative conference from the policy conference, she said.Duarte said that recent calls from the ANC Youth League to have Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan sacked were uncalled for. She said that a Cabinet reshuffle remained the prerogative of President Jacob Zuma. We think that s incorrect behaviour. We also don t think that is correct for any structures of the ANC to make a decision about the Cabinet of the government, she said.A Cabinet minister who spoke on condition of anonymity said yesterday that the veterans push for a national consultative conference to receive a separate status from the policy conference had failed. They have failed. We ll tell them that they have to go back to the structures. We have faith in number 1 (Zuma) and the NEC is not stepping down, the minister said.Spokesperson for the stalwarts and veterans Sydney Mufamadi said last week in the run-up to the meeting: We ll have a meeting that will iron out the details of how we proceed from there. We will come out with an indication of what was discussed and the progress or lack of it. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za