For other southern African nations, the Cosafa Cup was a tournament that would get people s attention regarding the development of their teams.However, for Bafana Bafana, the tournament was more of an experiment for coach Stuart Baxter. Not only was it important for Baxter s long term plans for Bafana, it also served as a fact finding mission, where the active Bafana coach could have a look at youngsters and try out different combinations. In one tournament, Baxter tried out three systems 4-2-3-1, 4-3-3 and 4-4-2, with the inten- tion of seeing which the young players were most comfortable with.The latter two got Baxter the results he wanted and overall painted a positive picture in terms of development in the country, more so that it was unknown Orlando Pirates defender Sandile Mthethwa who caught the eye. This is why Baxter is labouring at getting a clear understanding of what tournaments such as Cosafa and the African Nations Cup (Chan) serve to achieve. For a long time, we have been reluctant to come. The referees are used in the tournaments to develop. Why can t coaches too find players that suit the programme? Let us start from the point of where the tournament fits in the development programme in the south, Baxter said. It is good preparation for Afcon and the World Cup. We are using this for our assistant coach (Thabo Senong) too who had to make decisions when I was in the stands. This is because Cosafa has a vital role to play for our development, Baxter said.With a Chan qualifying match set for Friday next on Baxter s to-do list, the Bafana mentor will be happy to have played a few matches that gave him a chance to see more players. But Baxter has said that he will call in a few experienced Absa Premiership players to qualify for the tournament only meant for locally based players. Overall though, the former SuperSport United and Kaizer Chiefs coach said he left the Cosafa Cup not only with the Plate after beating Namibia 1-0 in the final but also with valuable information that could help with future selections. We cannot be happy if we do not win the thing (Plate). But given the information that we got, that will help me in the future selections. We have decided as the FA that we will get the same in Cosafa and Chan. It is a challenge. You have to get the squad up and running. We will strengthen the Chan squad with a few PSL players. The Chan will be very similar to this one. The information we got is useful. I always say that you either win or you learn, he said.-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za