With as many as 8 million votes cast, the 2017 Black Label Cup edition has shown a growing interest in the pre-season Soweto derby among Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs fans.But the organisers will still not be drawn on the possibility of the annual champions cup match being expanded to a four-team extravaganza. In its seventh year, the annual match has seen a steady increase in interest from spectators eager to witness the preseason clash. This could be attributed to the fact that fans across the country are not only able to pick their starting lineups through voting, but are also involved in selecting their preferred team formations. But the reasoning has always been that both Chiefs and Pirates represent more than 80% of the football fans in the country.And critics of the plan say any expansion to the knockout tournament would adversely affect the popular Soweto derby. Other local football fans have continued to question the format, as seen when the organisers have to defend the exclusion of other clubs. We d like to focus on the current champions cup match, but we can t say yes or no to the possibility of expanding the cup in future, AB InBev events manager Puso Makume, said. We have now partnered with the Premier Soccer League as Black Label and we don t know what might happen in future. For now the focus is on the upcoming match. With less than five days to the big game at FNB stadium on Saturday, the organisers yesterday declared the countdown officially on. Fans of both clubs involved have until midnight to make the final formation and starting lineup selections for the match.Veteran goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune has proved to be the most voted for player in past editions, once generating as high as 1.5 million votes and he will definitely be expected to make the Amakhosi lineup. Tickets have already been sold out and fans have been advised to arrive early to avoid traffic congestion on the day. Strict traffic control measures will be in operation around the stadium and the use of public transportation for the event is highly recommended. We are looking forward to hosting yet another Carling Cup match. This is undoubtedly the biggest match in the country as it provides our football-loving fans with much-needed entertainment during the pre-season, SA Stadium Management CEO Jacques Grobbelaar said.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za