As South Africans remember Madiba s service and sacrifice this Mandela Day in the Year of Oliver Tambo, it is important to remember the service of these two great sons of Africa. Mandela and Tambo Inc this was the name of their law firm a firm at service for the people.It is no coincidence that these two giants met each other through service to their people. This service and comradeship would strengthen during the early 50s when Mandela, having opened his own law firm, would invite Tambo to join him.It is known how these two would represent the marginalised and oppressed not only in court but outside the courts as well mobilising people to take up the call to resistance. Others such as Ruth Mompati, Duma Nokwe, Mendi Msimang and Godfrey Pitje would later join them in this service both in the law firm and of their people in the pursuance of freedom.History tells us how these two were separated, though only physically but not in the spirit of service. Mandela being confined to a prison cell would remain true to his leader Tambo who was in exile.While the one sacrificed through service of prisoner, the other would sacrifice through service as president. It is difficult to suggest who really is the father of the nation.On July 18, 2009, the UN General Assembly voted overwhelmingly in favour of declaring the date as International Nelson Mandela Day.The assembly made the declaration with the words: The General Assembly recognises Nelson Mandela s values and his dedication to the service of humanity, in the fields of conflict resolution, race relations, the promotion and protection of human rights, reconciliation, gender equality and the rights of children and other vulnerable groups, as well as the fight against poverty and the promotion of social justice. It acknowledges his contribution to the struggle for democracy internationally and the promotion of a culture of peace throughout the world. In 2015, the General Assembly included the protection of prisoners and valuing the work of prison staff in the scope of Mandela Day.It went on to adopt the Nelson Mandela Rules, which ensured that there was a minimum standard in all prisons across the world, recognising that even though incarcerated prisoners remained a part of society.Decades earlier, the ANC had taken the unusual step of making Mandela the face of the campaign against apartheid.It is not known whether this was a deliberate decision but over time, the Free Mandela campaign together with the Boycott South Africa campaign would become instrumental in overcoming the apartheid regime.Mandela s face, banned in South Africa, would become the focal point of freeing all political prisoners and Mandela eventually becoming the world s most famous prisoner.Tambo played no small part in this.The image of Mandela has thus evolved, and naturally so, into one which represents freedom and liberty as well as service and dedication.Today men and women across the globe are encouraged to emulate the 67 years of service, dedicated by Tata Madiba of his life, to a humanitarian cause and to volunteering. Today Tata Madiba stands as an international symbol of freedom and service, encouraging young people to realise that these two ideals are two sides of the same coin.With the rights of freedom comes the responsibility of service. Service to one s community but also service to one s country and continent. The UN has thus declared July 18 Nelson Mandela Day but because Tata Madiba played such an important role in our life as a nation, our government has declared the whole month of July Nelson Mandela Month.It gives us an opportunity to put into practice the theme that our government has developed during this month.The UN has the theme: Take Action! Inspire Change! but our government thought it well to develop this and declare: Take Action! Inspire Change! Make every day Mandela Day! Yet we must remember that there is a difference between service and service with sacrifice. Often people donate and give that which they can afford or which does not bother them.They write a cheque, they add extra tinned food to the shopping trolley, they drop off old clothes or toys to a local charity organisation and while all of these are appreciated it does not cost them sacrifice.Both Mandela and Tambo served their community and country through hard sacrifices.For 27 years Madiba was separated from his wife and children. This aspect of service alone should indicate the extent of his sacrifice.For those who were not able to do to their 67 minutes on Mandela Day remember that the rest of July remains Mandela Month and that you could do so.One will be surprised how the need for service is needed in one s neighbourhood, in a neighbouring community and not necessarily in another province or country.However, it is important to remember that the poor could be of service too. While they may not be able to donate anything, they are able to make a difference in their own community.Mandela Day must not be a one-off annually or for the month of July. As the government suggests, we must make every day Mandela Day.We must recognise that no matter how poor we are, we can contribute to a better community, and that no matter how well off we are, people out there need our time, our attention and our energy.All of us must be reminded of the words of Tata Madiba when he said: It is in your hands to make of our world a better place for all. Wesley SealeWesley Seale teaches politics at Rhodes University