The eThekwini municipality has outlined its plan to combat violence at the notorious Glebelands hostel, which includes implementing the Hostels Stabilisation Strategy, to ensure that hostels in the city are safe and conducive for residents to live.This follows a damning report by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane, which found that the municipality, along with the city s Metro police, SAPS and department of social development had failed residents of the hostel by not addressing the instability. The process to be followed includes conducting a social analysis to establish a baseline of the status across all hostels. Thereafter, dedicating social facilitation as per priorities already determined namely at the Glebelands community residential unit (CRU) and from the outcomes of the analysis, the city said in a report tabled with the eThekwini Executive Committee recently. This will be followed by the development of the programme for social stability and ongoing social interventions focusing on safety, security and CRU tenant issues. The public protector s investigation followed complaints regarding ongoing violence and murders at the hostel in Umlazi, which had claimed the lives of at least 44 people in the past two years, with scores of others being displaced or evicted. The eThekwini municipality failed to provide services to the Glebelands hostel community in a financially and environmentally sustainable manner as required by Section 152(1)(b) of the Constitution and Section 4(2)(d) of the Local Government Municipal Systems Act. Mkhwebane gave the municipality 30 days to respond to the report but the municipality has challenged some of the findings and has asked the public protector to review them. Also, many of the interventions recommended have been implemented. The hostel intervention and response plan includes tenant management, service delivery strategy, hostels governance and institutional arrangements, safety and security interventions, rent recovery strategies and a peace accords agreement between factions, the city said. Central to the successes of the response plan was the minimisation of violent killings that were occurring at hostels. Hence, at the Glebelands hostel a conflict resolution reconstruction and development programme was embarked on by the city and the provincial department of community safety and liaison, the report said.The city said the conflict programmes should be closely managed by competent resources that had adequate experience for its strategy to work. The Post-Conflict Settlement and Reconstruction Programme emphasises social and economic dimensions of the post-conflict settlement and reconstruction. This includes re-establishing the functional component of society, including restoring internal security and prompting the rule of law, rebuilding the local economy through skills development, repairing the physical infrastructure and effecting social change through sports development. The report said the total budget for the Social Facilitation Programme would be covered across budget from Safer Cities, the security management unit and human settlement unit.Lesley Tshamanoprovinces@thenewage.co.za