On Friday March 3, 2017, the police department presented official crime statistics from April 1 to December, 2016 to the police committee in Parliament, where they painted a picture of a country winning the fight against crime.In the first quarter, there was a 0.6% increase in murder compared to the previous year.While murder had decreased in the Northern Cape, Limpopo, Free State, Eastern Cape and North West, it remained a problem in the Western Cape.In May, a new report by property group Lightstone revealed that the Western Cape had the highest number of reported residential crimes, while Limpopo had the lowest.Consistent with the provincial residential crime data, eight areas listed in the top 10 suburbs with the highest number of reported residential crime per 1000 households were from the Western Cape.These statistics were consistent with the yearly numbers of the last decade, an ever increasing number of violent crimes in the Western Cape.Why was the Western Cape moving in the opposite direction to the rest of the country?Were criminals worse here? What was even more worrying was the difference in crime statistics between suburbs in the Western Cape, with those predominantly coloured and African showing a huge contrast to the more affluent and predominantly white suburbs.The daily security concerns of the majority have never been further from the minds of the DA, whose politics are gripped by daily plots of jingles and publicity stunts they think will win them the next elections, one expert said.Every day we are hearing of yet another violent crime in our society and the DA could not be bothered. The DA has never done anything to end the drug trade on the Cape Flats.There doesn t seem to be any reason why the city s safety and security directorate does not set up an anti-gang unit. Many activists have lamented that the city is quick to formulate anti-land invasion units that are particularly active in Gugulethu, Macassar, Mitchells Plain, Delft and Mandela Park, in tearing down hundreds of shacks over the years set up by frustrated back-yard residents.Cape Flats-based political activist and academic Shaheed Mahomed believes it is in the DA s interests to not end the drug trade in the city. In just one year, between April 2011 and March 2012, there were 2 300 murders in Cape Town more than in Johannesburg and Pretoria combined. Most of them happened in Manenberg, Khayelitsha, Hanover Park and Mitchells Plain.About 20% of school pupils in this province are using tik. In 2004, only 12000 pupils in the city of Cape Town were reported to be using the drug, yet in 2009, four years after the DA took over the city, it increased to 69 000 (Bhoola 2014). By 2009, nothing had been done to reverse the problem.The people in the city are worse off than they were when the ANC was in power. Sending in more police, while necessary, cannot be the only solution to this problem. The question of police has been a contentious one and the DA has used it time and again to hide its ineptitude, their racial approach to crime and the undisputed fact that community safety is much more than policing. So what does reduce crime?Time and time again, across study after study, the answer was the same, decentralised, distributed, real-time response to crime is the only truly effective solution. In other words: stopping crime depends upon you stepping in and doing it yourself.Where do we begin? Township-based groups have told us that it starts with basics like street lighting, which is almost non-existent in Cape townships and as a result, crime is rife. The complaint has been raised at nearly every community meeting for years, no matter who organised the meeting or what else the meeting was supposed to be about.The second concern that is consistently raised is the concentration of public funds on white suburbs means that different races live totally different lives. White Capetonians can expect to wake up on the weekend and buy some beers for the night without incident. But in townships like Khayelitsha, residents have reported that policemen set up ad hoc roadblocks on the pavements and ask residents returning from bottle stores to show receipts for the beer they have purchased.It has also been stated, rather consistently, that the situation will continue to worsen rapidly until the DA abandons its practice of maintaining the living areas set up by apartheid s Group Areas Act. The so-called coloured areas Delft, Grassy Park, Ocean View, Bishop Lavis, Lavender Hill and Hanover Park remain derelict ghettos.The DA swings from blaming black people for crime and blaming black police officers for not preventing it.Here are the facts. There are a lot of things that influence the total crime rate, and it is doubtful that a single factor can be taken to be the only or key cause in it going up or down.Almost every study ever done shows that crime is a socio economic phenomenon.Until the DA gets this, Cape Town and Western Cape crime statistics will continue to rise.Buyile Sangolekhaya Matiwane is chairperson of Sasco in the Western Cape and Khalid Sayed is chairperson of the ANC Youth League in the Western Cape