A CAPE Town day care centre is liable for the death of a five-month-old baby who died after rolling off a bed, when it was left unsupervised, the Western Cape High Court found yesterday.The parents of the baby sued the Aunty Dawn Daycare in Pinelands and the provincial department of social development for negligence. According to the judgment, in 2010 the owner of the cr che took the baby to her own bedroom and placed her on her bed. She left the room and closed the door behind her. When she returned later that morning she found the baby on the floor next to the bed.The baby was not breathing and she was already dead. It was found that the baby died of positional asphyxia or postural asphyxia which occurs in an infant when the infant s position prevents it from breathing adequately either because the nose or mouth is blocked and/or its chest is unable to fully expand and/or its airway is kinked.A witness for the complainants, Dr Heidi van der Watt, said in her testimony that infants should never be left unattended on a raised surface, as they could roll off the surface and sustain injuries. She also said that the fivemonth-old infant should never have been left unattended. The court said the cr che was legally obliged to ensure the safety of the child while she was in its care. Placing a five-month-old infant on a bed and leaving her unattended and alone in a room, exposes her to physical danger and constitutes a clear nonadherence to basic safety standards on how to care for an infant, the judgment read.The court also said that the provincial social development department was constitutionally mandated to regulate and control the provision of day care centres (ECDs) in the province. The court said that the centre was operating illegally and it was only registered after the child s death. The department was aware that the first defendant was operating an unregistered ECD facility. The department did not take any steps to assist the first defendant to become compliant with the necessary requirements for registration. The court said that once the application was received, the department should have ensured that there were regular visits and assessments done by the department, social workers . It was only after the incident that the department undertook to ensure that the minimum norms and standards would be adhered to by the facility, the court said. It also said that the department had failed to inspect the day care centre to ensure the safety of the children that were there.The parents of the baby said that if the department had visited the premises of the day care, it would have detected that despite the fact that a number of infants and toddlers were there, only three cots were available. Another concern which the judgment raised was that staff members at the centre were not trained to look after toddlers.At the time of the baby s death, the facility had 15 children under three years and one under the age of four. A specialist who did the autopsy showed haemorrhaging in the lung septae, alveolar spaces and in an airway. This is considered to be asphyxia related, the court said.zodidim@thenewage.co.za