With some ANC members of Parliament (MPs) contemplating breaking party ranks on the August 8 motion of no-confidence debate, an air of tension still hangs over the party on the matter.ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe was tight-lipped yesterday at the governing party s national policy conference about the possibility of ANC MPs throwing in their lot with the opposition benches to vote in favour for a motion to remove President Jacob Zuma from office. I won t comment on a hypothesis. ANC MPs are ANC MPs, that is clear, Mantashe said.Mantashe s comments came as the party s national executive committee (NEC) subcommittee on organisational building and campaigns Fikile Mbalula having delivered at the weekend stinging threats to ANC MPs planning to vote Zuma out of office.He said ANC MPs who failed to toe the party line would be disciplined and could face possible expulsion.This came against the background of a proposal being tabled at the governing party s national policy conference to outline the duties and responsibilities of the ANC parliamentary caucus in its constitution.The ANC said it was seeking greater alignment between the ANC in Luthuli House as a strategic centre of power with its parliamentary structure.One ANC MP, who had been vocal against the leadership of Zuma, was Makhosi Khoza, who had given tacit indication that she intended to vote in favour of the motion. However, Mbalula made it clear that ANC MPs were accountable to the party.Mantashe, making reference to the divisions over the leadership of Zuma that were laid bare at the opening of the ANC s policy indaba last Friday, said while tensions over key debates at the conference continued to simmer, unity was still the central goal for the party. We don t drive a policy conference on the basis of urgency. We drive a policy conference on the basis of reaching out to each other and coming out of here more united. Mantashe responded to media reports suggesting that national disciplinary committee chair Derek Hanekom was on the receiving end of a threat to have disciplinary charges meted out against him following his dismissal of a proposal on the expropriation of land without compensation as nonsense . You can t just be disciplined because you disagree. It does not work that way. Work is going according to schedule. ANC national chairperson and speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete berated opposition benches for their habit of going to court over matters that could be resolved in Parliament. We are getting used to it. It s unfortunate. In my view, the Constitution has given us certain duties. It has actually said we have the right to decide our internal arrangements and we again and again take things which belong to our internal arrangements to court. It s so unnecessary, Mbete said.This came against the background of a unanimous ruling by the Constitutional Court stating that Mbete had the constitutional powers to decide on whether Parliament could vote in a motion of no confidence in Zuma through a secret ballot.Mbete said that although the ANC faced numerous challenges that undermined its ability to govern, the party would use its policy indaba to counter the sad state of its internal affairs. The ANC is facing challenges that depict the reality of today. The ANC is now faced with a different reality. We ve been in exile, we came back, we ve been in governance for 20-odd years and there will still be challenges going further, but we are up for it, she said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za