While many people scoff at the idea of male rape, it is not only confined to prisons with a growing number of cases of men being raped or sexually abused being reported in South Africa.Three suspects allegedly abducted and raped a man from Pretoria two months ago. The suspects are at large.The man was traumatised and later received medical treatment. Police spokesperson Colette Weilbach encouraged male rape victims to come forward and report such crimes. We haven t found the suspects but we are still looking, Collette said.The female suspects allegedly forced the man to drink an energy drink before taking turns to rape him numerous times during the day.A related case was reported in Johannesburg last month when a 19-year-old male from Free State responded to an advertisement looking for people who are good at mathematics.The young man told the police that he was drugged and raped after responding to the advertisement.Gauteng police spokesperson Lt Kay Makhubela said one of the reasons that many cases of male sexual abuse were not reported could be beacause some men were too embarrassed to report such a crime, as it seemed to be a laughing matter with few people taking allegations of male rape seriously. We have recently reported cases of male sexual rape but they are not that many, because it is not easy for a man to come forward and report that kind of a crime, Makhubela said.He was unable to divulge recent statistics relating to male rape.In KZN, three women are facing charges of raping a man in Hluhluwe, northern KwaZulu-Natal. The man allegedly received a call from a woman he knew, requesting assistance with an electrical fault. Upon his arrival he saw two other women who then raped him. After the incident, the man informed his family but they did not believe him until later when the video of the incident appeared online.The victim said he feared going to the police because he thought they would not take him seriously. When I told them what happened, they were shocked. Rees Mann, a rape survivor and founder of South Africa s first registered organisation to support non-offending male survivors of sexual abuse and rape, said 25% of South African girls will be sexually abused by the time they turn 18 compared to the 17% of boys and this could be a clear indication that males too are at risk.The SA male survivors of sexual abuse said one in five adult males are victims in sexual offences and this figure could be much higher as a male is 10 times less likely to report a sexual violation than a woman. This could mean that SA could have the highest number of adult male victims in the world.-TNA Reporter