For award winning dancer, choreographer, writer, author and philanthropist, Paul Modjadji, dance is an art form and means of self expression. Dance for me is a universal language of the soul that knows no boundaries, cannot be controlled or contained and is the true essence of freedom, Modjadji told The New Age in a recent interview. It was a rather sunny and bit windy Friday afternoon and, after running a few errands, the Hammanskraal-born choreographer is ready for this sit down conversation.He had earlier suggested the award-winning Palazzo Hotel, which forms part of the Montecasino entertainment complex in Fourways as the ideal place for the long chat that seeks to trace his sensational rise to the top of global dance industry that has had him recognised as one of the country s young leaders.The 34-year-old dance star is dressed in tracksuit pants and white sneakers and looks particularly refreshed for someone who has spent the better part of the year travelling the length and breath of the continent.His Breaking Down the Borders African tour of 10 African states has recently taken him to nine African countries among them Zimbabwe, Zambia, Kenya, Lesotho, Tanzania and Namibia. He is now preparing to close off a successful tour with a visit to nearby Botswana. His mission, he says is to unearth dance talent and build capacity for the continent to be a global player in dance. It goes without saying that there is amazing talent around the continent. The travelling for me has been a great learning experience. You can t expect to know about other people s cultures from a distance and through the tour I had to go beyond the usual stuff and really immerse myself in the cultures of the people I have met on the road on a more meaningful level, he said.Modjadji is one of the view that to truly know about someone, you must be prepared to spend time in his home, eat his food. For me development and understanding someone means I have to go deeper than just paying lip service to their culture. It means I have to eat and be one with them. It has been such a blessing doing the tour. It allowed me to unite my gift for dance with my passion for Africa, social issues and the stories and successes yet to be told about the talent in the continent, he said.The brainwave for the Breaking Down Borders Tour, came when Modjadji graduated from his six-week fellowship programme as part of the Barack Obama s Young African Leaders Initiative, in 2015. This coveted stint in Washington DC, also provided him with an opportunity of meeting the man himself, Obama.It was also during this time that Obama urged Modjadji and Africa s top 1% achievers to go out there and be the change they want to see for the continent of Africa. It was at the back of the work done with my organisation that I got to meet the Obamas. And like Nelson Mandela, there is something about being in the same space with Obama that tells you are meeting someone phenomenal. I appreciate the most his words of encouragement which really struck a chord and literally gave birth to the work I am presently doing in the continent. The Breaking Down Borders Tour is as result of his pep talk during one of the graduation ceremonies he hosted with all of us, Modjatji said.It all began at home in Hammanskraal for the now decorated star dancer and cultural ambassador who has scaled the heights of choreography. Modjatji grew up surrounded by the warmth of a big family and dreamed of making it big even when there were no outlets for his creative spirit. Like with every African household, there was always music at home. I danced a lot during family events and Christmas was always a special time for me and my family. It was always fun to be home during these times and I always felt the warmth and closeness of my family during this time of the year. So for me dancing and everything started there. It was much later at the age of 16 that I attended dance classes. Even then, the classes were far from home. When I eventually attended these free classes, I had to travel a lot and this could only happen on Saturdays, he said.He credits musicals such as Sarafina and films such as Fame as having made an early impression on him and his subsequent journey to the centre of the world s dance stage. There was never a school concert without my name appearing on it. I had a very big obsession with musicals such as Sarafina and theatre which really fuelled my passion for dance, he said.It is hard to believe that at the age of 18, just two years after starting his dance classes Modjadji would be selected as the only promising African dancer to receive a one-year scholarship by the Dansevaerkstedet Dance Foundation in Denmark. What was supposed to have been my gap year turned out to be the year I was going to begin the biggest journey of my life as far as dancing is concerned. Basically this scholarship is only given to one young deserving dancer per year and to be afforded that opportunity is a once in a lifetime opportunity for an African child such as myself, he said.But this meant being away from home and for an 18 year old, there were lot of difficulties trying to adjust to a European country and its cold elitist culture. I had to learn to adapt to a cold European country with a different culture, which was a culture shock for me at that stage. Here I was learning all these new things I did not know formed part of dancing stretching and attending classes on a daily basis. All I ever knew was to get on stage and start doing my thing, but there things are done differently. It is not dancing for the sake of dancing. There are lot of things, techniques involved, so you can imagine how tough it must have been to keep up with the changes, he said.He says when the going got tough, there were times he thought about quitting, but was saved by his father s wise words: People do not quit because they are bored but quit because their passion is dead. These words and the fact that I was the first African dancer to have had this opportunity made me think twice about quitting, he said.When he was given the title Global Young Leader Award on the back of his Denmark stint, Modjadji says the pressures of the title were sometimes a big burden on his young shoulders. I felt it was too soon for me to be getting all these accolades. I felt under achieved and would ask Myles, why me? I am not a leader. But I guess on the other hand, this worked to motivate me to never take things for granted and become a better dancer, better professional and leader, he said.After a year in Denmark Modjadji returned home to study with the Tshwane University of Technology dance department, where he did contemporary dance, jazz and ballet.In his third year of study, Modjadji s stars aligned when he auditioned for the youth soapie, Backstage. The popular soapie which had given birth to dancers such as Lorcia Cooper before him had just moved from Cape Town to Johannesburg and the rest, as they say, is history, making moves that have given both to some of the biggest dance project locally and internationally. Backstage was such a dream job for me. It gave me countless opportunities to explore the dance art field and it certainly cemented my professional career as dancer as well as a script developer, researcher and producer, which for a long time is the work I did after registering my company Imvula Pula, he said.He says the Backstage role allowed him a great space to move within the industry which saw him work on a series of television shows for the SABC as well as other broadcasters doing television scripts and content development gigs. His first such job was on DIY shows Iketsetse. However, he says he got bored doing these odd jobs and decided to take on other challenges. I got tired of chasing after gigs and wanted to venture into meaningful projects. I wanted to be a decision maker in everything I was going to be involved in. Starting my company Imvula Pula allowed me this, but it was not enough as I wanted to be a business person rather than a glorified service provider. I did that with Iketsetse, but soon wanted to grow as a business person. My first such project was choreographing the India Brazil South Africa (IBSA) summit in India, which gave me an opportunity to work with Brazilian and Indian dancers in 2008. For this prestigious gig, he was commissioned by the Department of Arts and Culture to oversee the choreography of South Africa s presentation at the IBSA summit in India.In 2011, Modjadji made more history when he became the first African to win the European Star Dance World Dance Championships in the solo jazz category.The following year, in 2012 the star dancer made more history locally by becoming the first South African young artist to win the South African Youth Award, for the arts and entertainment category.In 2013 the city of Tshwane appointed him its official brand ambassador.This was followed up by a trip to New York where he represented the country at the 40th annual Talent America Showcase in New York. His star showing at the championship saw him being crowned adult top dancer and was subsequently honoured with the Waves of Movement special award, an award given to the overall outstanding dancer. As if these accolades are not enough, Modjadji is also a judge for the Dance Star World Championship.Other notable achievements include winning the National Heritage Golden Shield Youth Advocacy Award, the South African Youth Award, the Global Young Leaders Award and Inyathelo Philanthropy Award, to name but a few.Modjadji says nothing beats being recognised and acknowledged at home. Do not get me wrong. There is something humbling about being recognised and acknowledged at home. So for me the highlight of my career has to be winning awards here at home, rather than the ones I received internationally. I think one of the biggest awards for me is the South African Youth Award, the man who recently judged the Dance Star World Championship said.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongaS@thenewage.co.za