Market watchers are nervously awaiting the Quarterly Labour Force Survey for the second quarter, to be published by Stats SA this morning, as a deep job market recession grips the country – its worst unemployment crisis in at least 14 years. In the first quarter of this year, unemployment shot up to 27.7%, up 1.2 percentage points from the fourth quarter of last year. While the economy added 144000 jobs during the first quarter, this was offset by the number of job seekers surging by 433000. Analysts are concerned that the data could be higher than the 9.3 million jobless. Confidence among both businesses and consumers is at a low and this has a chilling effect on employment. The retail sector, which relies on consumers spending their cash, is in the doldrums with luxury items being left on the shelves even as retailers launch wave after wave of sales. Not surprisingly, food is one of the few sectors holding up but even there consumers are going for cheaper brands and cutting spending. The sluggish manufacturing sector reflected the biggest growth in employment in the first quarter, but observers doubt it is sustainable. The agricultural sector has shed more than 44000 jobs – no doubt due to the drought – and trade more than 15 000. Overall, jobs in the formal sector are down almost 2.7 million. Construction is down as householders and businesses put on hold expansion plans. Statistician-general Pali Lehohla said in the first quarter that growth in employment was offset by the rise in the number of job seekers who entered the market at the beginning of the year. “The gap between the unemployment rate envisaged in the national development plan (NDP) and the current rate is widening. The NDP states unemployment should be 14% by 2020 and we have only two and a half years to go. “The gap to 2020 stands at 13.7 percentage points. Of the 433000 people who joined the ranks of the unemployed in the first quarter of 2017, approximately 58% were aged 15-34,” he said. Investec economist Kamilla Kaplan predicts unemployment to rise to 27.8% this year from 27% recorded last year. Kevin Lings at Stanlib said the country is experiencing an investment recession. “Fixed investment spending in South Africa, by government and the private sector, amounted to 19.5% of GDP in the first quarter of 2017. “While this is relatively unchanged compared with the preceding seven to eight years since the global financial market crisis, it is far too low given the country’s high and sustained levels of unemployment,” Lings said. Today’s data is likely to highlight the difficulties young people face in finding work, despite government incentives to create jobs. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za