Gauteng chief inspector Moitoi Nkoana said they arrested four security guards hired by Nancefield Dube Taxi Association and confiscated four rifles during the first day of the month-long taxi route shutdown in Soweto.A Witwatersrand Taxi Association driver was arrested after being found to be operating in Makhetha Road. The passengers were forced to disembark and the vehicle was impounded.This follows the temporary closure by the Gauteng transport department of five taxi ranks and all routes operated by both associations in the area following ongoing fighting by the Witwatersrand Taxi Association (Wata) and Nancefield Dube West Taxi Association (Nanduwe) over routes.Several traffic officers were deployed to monitor the Mofolo Kwa-Mthethwa informal taxi rank Makhetha Stores informal taxi rank, Dube station taxi rank, Makhetha Garage (Phefeni) taxi rank and Uncle Tom s taxi rank from the early hours of Thursday morning.Residents in the affected areas were left stranded as they could not catch taxis.A Mofolo resident said although he was aware of the strain the taxi shutdown had on commuters, he agreed with the decision to have the routes closed so the two associations could resolve their differences. The ongoing violence has instilled fear in us, even the taxi drivers. It is not safe anymore. These people should sort out their differences because we depend on them for transport, he said.He said should the two associations fail to resolve their issues, the government should introduce Rea Vaya as their daily public transport.Wata queue marshals, who refused to be named for fear of victimisation, said the decision by roads and transport MEC Ismail Vadi was biased. The violence was started by Nanduwe last year. Our members have been dying since the disputes erupted. We feel that Nanduwe is in the wrong because we were the ones who invited them to operate on our routes. Today they want to take over everything, the marshal said. He claimed that Nanduwe did not have operating licences for the area. Legally, Nanduwe was not supposed to be operating. They brought their own guys after we asked them to join our route in 1998 when we could not manage the large number of commuters. A lot of lives have been lost as a result of these disputes and we want this thing to come to an end. We are suffering and are scared for our safety every day. Some of our drivers are even scared to go home and have to live in different areas or hotels to protect themselves, he said. Our commuters will suffer in the next 30 days and some of them will even lose their jobs, he said.National Taxi Alliance spokesperson Theo Malele confirmed the meeting it held with executives from both associations and said some progress had been made. However, he could not divulge any information due to the sensitivity of the matter. Nanduwe marshals declined to commentnews@thenewage.co.za