Fans of British singer Adele were left disappointed at the weekend and in shock following the Hello singer s eleventh hour cancellation of two of her London concerts.The 29-year-old singer was forced to cancel her gigs this past weekend due to doctors orders. It is reported that the multiple award-wining songstress has damaged her vocal cords which has forced her to cancel her London engagements among other things.Thus far the singer has done 121 shows and was left with two gigantic shows at Wembley Stadium, London, to wrap things up.The heartbroken and speechless singer was quick to apologise to her fans for the time and money they have spent organising their trips with their loved ones.In an effort to try to remedy the situation, she revealed that she had thought of lip-syncing her remaining performances, but felt that it wouldn t be fair to her fans as she has never done that before. The last two nights at Wembley only have been the biggest and best shows of my life, however, I struggled heavily on both nights. I felt like I had to constantly clear my throat. To say I am heartbroken would be a complete understatement. I am already maxed out on steroids and aids for my voice, the singer said with the hope her message would reach all her fans.Needless to say on hearing the news scores of her social media followers, who were shattered over the news, reacted differently to the news with others sympathetic, extending their best wishes speedy recovery, while many others let out their frustrations.@SarantosMelogia: I m so sorry to hear this @Adele. My heart goes out to you. I hope you have a speedy recovery. @adelesoup: I ve never seen anyone love their fans as genuinely as Adele and I am forever grateful. She really did 121 shows for us. One Twitter user was sarcastic toward the singer.@Chris_toon78: Thanks @adele what about the hotel and travel I have paid for. Disgusting. #AdeleWembley@stains7: I m sorry, did her announcement say she had died and not just pissed off thousands of fans and cost them a small fortune to come and watch? @ArtistTaxiDrive: You can t sing anyway and when you try (and fail) I always feel like slitting my wrists. So I think your cancelling your dates is a godsend. 