Domestic economic transactional activity measured by BankservAfrica, SA s payment system, remained volatile in June but, surprisingly, real take-home salaries improved in the month on the back of slower inflation increases.The BETI index reflects transactional activity from individuals and firms making payments for goods and services both electronically and via cheques, and is a good measure of immediate and nowcasting economic activities. Data for June showed that economic activity registered 0.4% month-onmonth growth after declining 0.1% between May and April.Year-on-year, the BETI continued to decline compared to a year ago, and for the last nine months. Economic activity is less than it was a year ago in real terms. For the second consecutive month, there was no change in the quarterly data, Mike Sch ssler, chief economist of economists.co.za, said. All of these suggest that economic activity wants to pick up, but shortterm shocks tend to project badly on actual economic transactions. On a bigger picture level, the data is revealing that the economy is changing direction so often that it is actually just running on the spot, he said. But the good news was that the BankservAfrica Disposable Salary Index showed a 1.3% month-on-month improvement. According to data, South Africans are taking home higher salaries for the fourth month in a row. Despite four years of relatively underperforming inflation on the South African equity market, private pension payments continue to grow above the rate of inflation, he said. The economy remains flat, mirroring GDP growth in the past three years.Economic transactions that underpin the economy show that uncertainty is still the dominant feature. This data suggests economic transactional activity is likely to be in a state of constant volatility in the longer term. Sch ssler said the economy declined by 38.5% in the quarters measured in this period and grew 61.5% of the time. Moreover 23% of this period recorded GDP growth of less than 0.5% while 23% showed growth higher than the population growth of 1.7%. The constant change in direction of the BETI suggests that the economy will remain low to flat in the immediate future and that the only constant at present is the uncertainty of both business and consumers.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za