More than 12 million infants globally were not vaccinated last year leaving them at risk of fatal diseases. A report released by the World Health Organisation (WHO) found that the babies missed their first dose of the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine. WHO said immunisation helped to prevent at least 3 million deaths each year from viruses ranging from diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough and measles. “Most of the children that remain un-immunised are the same ones missed by health systems. These children most likely have also not received any of the other basic health services. “If we are to raise the bar on global immunisation coverage, health services must reach the unreached. Every contact with the health system must be seen as an opportunity to immunise,” the agency’s director of immunisation, vaccines and biologicals, Dr Jean Marie Okwo-Bele said. He said vaccination levels remained “short of those required to prevent outbreaks, avert preventable deaths and achieve regional measles elimination goal.” Millions of some of the unimmuniszed are found in nations such as Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan. In May this year, a measles outbreak was declared in Gauteng and in other parts of the country after measles cases were confirmed. The outbreak forced authorities to roll out an emergency vaccination programme in various parts of the country in response to the outbreaks. Despite measles being preventable, hundreds of children lose their lives every year due to the disease. The medical director of Netcare, Dr Anchen Laubscher, said there were various factors behind the resurgence of measles. “One is that many people, particularly those in poorer countries are not able to access adequate healthcare resources. This results in some babies and toddlers missing their six-month, one-year or even both vaccines. “In some cases, the first dose is given at six months and the parents or caregivers simply forget the one-year follow up dose,” Laubscher said. According to the recent Demographic Health Survey released by Statistics SA, only half of South African children aged between 12 and 23 months received their vaccinations at the right time. The survey found that many children in Mpumalanga and Gauteng did not receive their required vaccinations. South Africa’s major measles outbreak occurred from 2009 to 2011, when some 18000 cases were reported. A vaccination campaign which began in Guateng this year is targeting schools and crèches. – 701233 -TNA Reporter