South Africa’s net foreign reserves rose to $42.24bn (R565bn)in June from $42.2bn the previous month, the Reserve Bank said on Friday. Gross reserves increased to $47.35bn from $47.24bn, bank data showed. The forward position, which represents the central bank’s unsettled or swap transactions, fell to $2.46bn in June from $2.5bn in the previous month. Reacting to the latest data, Nedbank Economic Research Unit said the level of reserves would remain volatile in the months ahead as the Reserve Bank’s ability to accumulate reserves would be limited by high market volatility. “Most of the changes will reflect valuation adjustments. However, reserve figures have little direct implication on monetary policy in the short term,” Johannes Khoza, Nedbank economist said. The international liquidity position increased marginally by 0.5% m-o-m or $219m to $42 24m in June due to an increase in gross reserves and reduced foreign currency deposits while gross reserves rose by $111m to $47.35bn due to an increase in foreign exchange reserves mainly attributed to valuation adjustment following the depreciation of the US dollar against most major currencies. This is likely reflecting fading hopes of a significant fiscal stimulus under the Trump administration. The slight rising of the country’s international reserves to the 50 level is good enough to pay for imports and rescue the rand if the need should arise, Khoza said. Some economists said it was important that the Bank sustained a good level in this net external position such as to be able to effect international transactions of its own or to be able to effect official interventions in the foreign exchange market to defend the value of the rand if there were to be an unsolicited speculative attack on the local currency. According to economists, the level of foreign exchange reserves is important as a signalling tool to investors holding rand-denominated assets and that the custodian of the rand had sufficient instruments to defend the currency. However, recently Efficient Group chief economist Dawie Roodt argued that although South Africa had more or less enough reserves to pay for imports and protect the rand, such reserves had not been used accordingly, especially to rescue the rand. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za