ANC veteran and author Sindiso Mfenyana yesterday launched his book titled Walking With Giants at the party s fifth national policy conference.The book gives an account of the history of the ruling ANC in South Africa and in exile.Mfenyana, who served as the first black parliamentary secretary, records in a refreshingly straightforward way how he and his peers experienced life in South Africa in the 1950s. I spent 30 years in exile and then the ANC decided that I should prepare myself to go to Parliament. You don t immediately become secretary so I had to understudy the then secretary, he said.Speaking at the launch, Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe, who first met Mfenyana 40 years ago in exile in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania described the author of Walking With Giants as a giant upon whose shoulders many of the latest crop of ANC leaders climbed.Radebe says the book will also reveal the kind of leaders Mfenyana worked with during his years as a servant of the people.Mfenyana served in Parliament between 1994 and 2004. Mfenyana is one of the stalwarts of our liberation movement who decided to tell his own story. The importance of writing our own stories can never be over emphasised. We live in an era where our stories get lost or appropriated by strangers who interpret them in ways different from what we have experienced, Radebe said.He said it was sad that some of South Africa s treasure troves were perishing without documenting their stories.Mfenyana said his inspiration to pen the book was to preserve history. You think it s important for other people to be aware of what you ve gone through. We were the ones who received young people in 1976 and arranged for them to get into school because some were young, he said.In the book, he touches on the openhandedness of fellow African countries that opened their doors for South African students after they fled the country straight after the 1976 uprising.He says the veterans decision to pull out of the first two days of the policy conference was a miss. I felt they have lost a good opportunity to make their case. This is where the membership of the ANC is, the representatives are there from branches and if you want to reach them this is the opportunity. mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za