An ANC commission discussion on economic transformation has urged the governing party to explore the feasibility of introducing a wealth tax in South Africa.The chairperson of the ANC national executive committee subcommittee on economic transformation, Enoch Godongwana, said delegates attending the party s national policy conference have asked the ANC to speed up implementation of its national general council resolution calling for a renewed look into the possible taxing of South Africa s wealthy. We reaffirmed the decision to explore the possibility of a wealth tax, he said.Cosatu also mooted the call last year at the height of the FeesMustFall protests that shut the doors of the country s institutions of higher learning.The ANC s alliance partner proposed that a wealth tax be imposed on individuals earning more than R1m per year.The view is also shared by the SACP who have long argued that a wealth tax was needed to reduce class and race inequality in the country.Godongwana also said the ANC was not opposed to the new Mining Charter, recently unveiled by Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane.While he said that the party agreed that black ownership be increased to 30%, as stated in the charter, other factors still needed to be discussed. There s no disagreement about the targets. What is contested is it s design, he said.While the Chamber of Mines has applied to interdict the new Mining Charter, Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu recently hailed it as a progressive piece of regulation. Minister Zwane is really under tremendous pressure, Zulu said this week on the sidelines of the ANC s policy conference.She said that disputed aspects of the charter could be fixed without industry stakeholders taking each other to court .Godongwana also said the patterns of privatisation at the South African Reserve Bank were a cause for concern. The abnormality of the Bank still being in private hands is a problem. Since it s formation in 1921, the central bank has been privatised, he said.This comes amid a raging debate to have the mandate of the Bank changed as per the remedial action spelled out in public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane s report on the apartheid-era bailout of Bankorp.Godongwana also called for the need for a state bank. The state bank is a major discussion. We have been exploring this notion. A key element is also the issue of concentration in the economy, he said.Godongwana also said the government needed to tighten its screws on monitoring and evaluating the implementation of government programmes. We carry things to conference, make decisions but then there s little implementation to strictly hold deployees accountable and to develop systems of making them accountable. bonolos@thenewage.co.za