Music legends, Don Laka, Simphiwe Dana, radio personality Nothemba Madumo, and many others also joined in the mourning of Afro-fusion music legend, Ray Phiri who passed away as a result of lung cancer at a Nelspruit Hospital.Madumo described him as a genuine and authentic musician on and off stage . He really was a charismatic person on and off the stage and freely expressed himself fully at any give time. His music contribution cannot only be restricted to Afro fusion and jazz but he really set the tone for the music of the 80s, she said.Award-winning jazz pianist Don Laka reflected on the death of the former Stimela lead singer and guitarist. Our relationship dates back more than 40 years. We always spoke at least once a week and we were supposed to drive down to Nelspruit this weekend with Sipho Hoststix Mabuse because between ourselves we shared a memorable musical heritage, Laka said.Laka said he and Phiri had performed quite a number of songs and had done a couple of songs together which were never recorded, with plans to record in the near future. Unfortunately these songs we did together and performed quite a number of times we never recorded, we had spoken of recording them, but that has not materialised. He was such a legend, a musical genius that and we both got engaged about the same time when we celebrated our 40th anniversary just over two years ago. So you can imagine that we go long way back as musicians and peers, according to Laka. One of the songs that Laka and Phiri penned and only managed to perform together is a song called Light The Candles. I have such fond memories of him doing this song and will forever miss his philosophical ways. We both shared a deep love for philosophy, Laka said.Andre le Roux of the South African Music Rights Association (Samro) described Phiri as a prolific music writer and producer who contributed to the careers of many of the country s musicians. He understood the business of music and composition better than most. In March this year, he was on the panel of the Samro CEO Forum in his home province of Mpumalanga, hosted by our chairperson, reverend Abe Sibiya. He regaled delegates, panellists and fellow artists with his words of wisdom, his insights into the music business and his advice on how to sound distinctive as an African composer, interspersed with some singing and dancing. With a career spanning over 40 years, Phiri remained relevant and recently performed at Igoda Goda touring circuit, playing shows at the Azgo Festival in Maputo, the Bassline Africa Day in Johannesburg, the Zakifo Festival in Durban and the Sakifo Festival on R union Island, in May and June. SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za