Hot on the heels of an emotionally charged ANC national policy conference, 1800 SACP voting delegates from across the length and breadth of the country will convene today in Boksburg for the party s six-day national congress.The build up to the conference comes against the background of relations in the ANC-led tripartite alliance being at an all time low, threatening to bring the workings of the alliance to a halt.Against the weight of mounting calls for the party to contest the 2019 general elections, stirrings of anger around the leadership of President Jacob Zuma and a raging ANC succession battle the SACP s 14th national congress is set to fall under an intense microscope.SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo, speaking about the party s state-of-readiness for the congress, said the communists did not want to be bogged down by personality cults but deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa, and not Zuma, would be representing the governing party at the conference. The ANC has confirmed that Cyril Ramaphosa will address the conference on behalf of the ANC, he said.This comes as the SACP s unequivocal rebuke against Zuma s leadership is increasingly getting louder. Added to the mix was Cosatu s central executive committee decision to ban Zuma from speaking at its events.Mashilo, making reference to the congress s scheduled election of new leaders, said general secretary Blade Nzimande s 19 year helm at the party was not indicative of an individual-centered election process. It s wrong to talk about Blade Nzimande as an individual. The leadership of the central committee is a collective, including the people he found there, he said.Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini, making reference to the differences of opinion between some quarters of the ANC and the SACP on the phrase white monopoly capital, said he was dismayed that a game of political football was being played over the undeniable truth that predominantly white owned corporations continued to have a stranglehold over the economy. We should not be prisoners of semantics about terms. Facts speak for themselves. The commanding heights of the economy resides in the hands of whites. The ANC knows that, the SACP knows that and all South Africans know that. It s unfortunate that we are being driven away from debating core issues based on what are we practically going to do to change that. Dlamini also said the jury was out on ANC branches adopting their preferred ANC policies and leaders at the December elective conference. No matter what I can say as a national leader, power resides in the branches to determine policies, he said.ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said the governing party looked forward to participating in the SACP s congress. We are invited and are wishing them a successful congress, he said.The SACP s conference will have 300 guests in attendance with a staff compliment of 250 people manning the event.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za