Retail clothing stores are flatlining as the once-endless line of credit for customers starts to fade. This is despite the slight uptick in slowing private sector credit demand growth which rose to 6.69% in May from 5.9% in April, Reserve Bank data shows. Expansion in the broadly defined M3 measure of money supply also increased, to 5.98% from a revised 5.34% in the previous month. Consumer expert Penelope Hawkins said for more than a decade consumers have bought fashion at large retail brands on credit “and indeed many of the large retailers have run a very profitable book associated with in-store purchases and store cards”. However, she said that now a general look at the trends shown in the consumer credit data of the National Credit Regulator that while there is still appetite for credit, rejection rates of applications for credit are at 52% and that while consumer credit is growing, it is growing at a more considered pace. “The store credit book showed a seasonal uptick over December 2016 (the latest for which data is available), but it shows very flat growth. “Consumers have been bitten by over-optimistic credit acquisition and the flatlining is probably realistic in the light of sluggish job growth and increasing costs of living,” Hawkins said. Meanwhile, corporate credit growth is expected to remain affected by depressed business confidence and the weak broader economic climate. “The rate of credit extended to households is expected to remain muted on both supply and demand side considerations. “Demand side factors include depressed consumer confidence, high unemployment, weak income growth and deleveraging,” Kamilla Kaplan, economist at Investec, said. She said on the supply side, credit criteria have tightened. According to the EY/BER second quarter of 2017 Financial Services survey, retail banks tightened their credit standards relative to the first quarter due to, among other things, the credit rating downgrades and the recession that hit the economy at the end of the first quarter. Some observers said that things are likely to get worse in future as the country is facing job a bloodbath, especially in the mining industry. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za