Mineral Resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane says they will continue to engage with business which has raised concerns with the recently unveiled Mining Charter. Zwane was speaking on the sidelines of the ongoing ANC National Policy Conference in Nasrec, south of Johannesburg. “We are engaging with everybody including business. We expect them to resist because their modus operandi is about making more money while we want to share the economy with more people,” Zwane also said that they anticipated an uproar after the charter was unveiled saying that sectors opposed to it were anti-transformation. “When we gazetted the second mining charter there was a negative but the economy then went to normal. We are already at normality with this charter its just that people are making noise as though this charter is way different than others,” The minister believes that the third iteration of the Mining Charter would pave the way for black ownership in the mining sector. “We are preparing for the future where ownership in the country should be shared among the people of this country,” The charter among its provisions calls for a minimum of 30% BEE for all mining rights
and minimum 50% plus 1 Black Person shareholding for all new prospecting rights; must include voting rights. The Chamber of Mines, which represents the owners of 90% of SA’s mines, has repeatedly said that it was not properly consulted and that the charter is flawed to the point where it is unconstitutional. The chamber has since applied to the North Gauteng for an interdict to prevent the implementation of the reviewed charter. Meanwhile the minister, who has featured prominently in media reports linking him to allegations of state capture says he welcomes a probe into the matter and should be dealt with decisively. “We are happy the ANC has taken a stance to deal with this matter of state capture in its holistic form. We want to deal with it and close that chapter and concentrate on what we need to do. Anyone who has evidence let us deal with this matter and close it.” he said -TNA Reporter