As the ANC attempts to chart a path to economic recovery through the implementation of the National Development Plan (NDP), an air of uncertainty still hangs over it enjoying broad consensus within the alliance.Speaking on the progress made towards the implementation of the NDP, ANC head of policy Jeff Radebe said that while both the SACP and Cosatu have been the fiercest critics of the economic chapter of the NDP, he was hopeful that the alliance would be able to build bridges over sharp differences of opinion on the vision of economic transformation outlined in the plan. Some of our alliance partners have some reservations on the economic structure of the National Development Plan. I cannot speak for them but my perception is that they have not rejected the NDP. I can t speak on behalf of the SACP but it s common cause that the general secretary of the SACP, Blade Nzimande, is a member of Cabinet. Radebe s comments came as both the SACP and Cosatu have consistently identified the ANC s failure to substantively interrogate the detail over the ANC s chosen modus operandi on economic transformation.The ANC s alliance partners insisted that the NDP reeked of neo-liberal undertones that were inconsistent with the movements policies.Delegates attending the governing party s six-day national policy conference now have it all to do if they are to thrash out their differences, speaking with one voice on the NDP s economic chapter. Radebe, making reference to the country s recent sovereign credit rating being downgraded to junk status by two rating agencies, said much now rested on the shoulders of the government and organised business to weather the downgrade storm. We don t live in isolation, there are conditions that are beyond our control especially on the global economic downturn and also our own subjective situation in South Africa that is affecting economic growth. But we are committed to ensuring that we obtain our objectives of the NDP. Radebe s brief also came amid a diagnostic report of the ANC national executive committee that was presented to delegates on Friday.The report did not mince its words on challenges, ranging from state capture, rampant corruption and factional fighting over the ANC presidency that continued to plague the governing party.Radebe also stressed that the private sector also had to bear responsibility in advancing inclusive economic growth. The private sector has a responsibility in the implementation of the national development plan. About 75% of the economy is in private hands, so the creation of jobs is within their hands. Our social partners also have a responsibility to come to the party as collaborators in ensuring that we can rid ourselves of the scourge of unemployment, poverty and inequality. Delegates attending the ANC s policy indaba are also expected to place the party s proposal on radical economic transformation under an intense microscope.Radebe also said that radical economic transformation dovetailed neatly with the NDP.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za