The ANC is taking no prisoners on the issue of land reform.Following President Jacob Zuma s opening address at the ANC s national policy conference, where he described the governing party s commitment to economic transformation as an apex priority , the ANC is now saying it would no longer drag its heels on land redistribution.ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Sihle Zikalala said he was confident that the governing party would emerge from its six-day policy indaba with a resolution to enforce land expropriation without compensation by amending the Constitution. The processes we ve been taking have failed. What we want to propose is land expropriation without compensation and we ll mobilise other African- orientated (parties) in Parliament. ANC Youth League (ANCYL) president Collen Maine said the league would be backing the call. The ANC must implement it, but it s an issue of us convincing other comrades so we ll see how it will go. We hope it ll become a resolution, he said.Meanwhile, the decision on whether ANC MPs will vote with the opposition benches in a motion of no confidence in Zuma will place the governing party s drive to make it a strategic centre of power in its structural design under the spotlight.Speaking to journalists at a press briefing, the chairperson of the ANC s organisational renewal committee, Fikile Mbalula, said the ANC would be seeking amendments to its constitution to provide for greater alignment between itself and its parliamentary caucus.He said ANC MPs breaking ranks with the party s decision to vote against the motion, whether by secret ballot or not, would be disciplined and face possible expulsion for undermining the party s political position on the matter. We made a proposal on the Parliamentary caucus of the ANC. Whereas we understand it has no powers to take decisions, it must find expression in the constitution, he said.Mbalula s comments come as the Speaker of Parliament, Baleka Mbete, has scheduled the debate on the motion of no confidence in Zuma for August 9.This also comes amid ANC MPs having already giving tacit indications that they would be throwing in their lot with the opposition benches on the matter.Mbalula went further, saying disciplinary measures would be meted out against ANC MPs voting in favour of the motion. We will not withdraw our president and we will not withdraw our president from the executive. All party members in terms of discipline are supposed to follow the party position. To the extent to which people will be ill-disciplined, the ANC will have to apply disciplinary procedures on those who want to use their so-called conscience. If that occurs it will be against the decision of the ANC. The role of elected MPs in Parliament must find expression in the constitution of the ANC, Mbalula said.Mbalula went further by describing ANC MPs attempting to oust Zuma as suicide bombers . Some have expressed their views that they are determined to undermine the party. There is no way that the ANC will vote with the DA on this matter, he said.Mbalula, referring to the debate within the ANC on the existence of white monopoly capital, said the phrase found expression in ANC literature. White monopoly capital in particular has been in the ANC lexicon since its founding in 1912. The blurring of lines and political amnesia is mostly nefarious ideological dissonance. Sector charters that have been gazetted by the ANC government are targeted at dismantling capital and its stranglehold over the South African economy. The aim is to have a competitive economy that is unleashed from the hands of a few, predominantly white Afrikaner males. Mbalula said.He said that plans to expand the ANC s national executive committee were under way. It is a desire to make the ANC at national level to be able to respond to the question of capacity. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za