SuperSport United could miss out on the CAF Confederation Cup quarterfinals should they fail to beat CF Mounana of Gabon in their last group match on Sunday at the Lucas Moripe Stadium. Following their goalless draw against log leaders Horoy on Saturday away, they now need to win that match at home to put themselves in with a good chance of progressing to the next round.With one match remaining in their Group D, they will need to win that match and for TP Mazembe and Horay to draw. The Tshwane side have only registered a single victory in five matches with four draws. The win only came against Mounana away, when they won 5-3. SuperSport are sitting on seven points, two behind leaders Horoya whom they played to a goalless draw on Saturday away. TP Mazembe are hot on their heels in third place with six points before their match last night against Mounana.But the good news for SuperSport is that a win could see them through to the next stage as Mazembe and leaders Horoya will play each other in the final game also on Sunday. This means SuperSport s last match at home is a must-win if they want to see themselves in the quarterfinal of the competition. They will be putting their hopes on the tournament s leading goal scorer Jeremy Brockie to find the back of the net and help them win. Brockie is sitting on seven goals but he has not scored since they beat Mounana 5-3 in May.Since then, SuperSport have drawn three straight matches and will need to turn that into a victory on Sunday at Lucas Moripe Stadium. But they have shown that when it matters most, they can turn it around and win, having proved that in the domestic competition. They will need to show that on Sunday in their last group match to qualify for the quarterfinals, which will be the club s first in its history. Elsewhere, Platinum Stars have been knocked out from the competition with one match to spare after losing to MC Alger 2-0 on Friday.Dikwena have not won in the group stages and are sitting bottom of the log with just two points from five matches. Their last match against Mbabane Swallows on Saturday at Royal Bafokeng Stadium will be a formality and they will want to end their campaign on a high note with a victory.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@ thenewage. co.za