Update: The bail hearing of accused killer Sandile Mantsoe has today been postponed to 30 August by the Johannesburg Magistrate Court. During the brief hearing Magistrate Pieter du Plessis, was upset with the state after it emerged that the forensic report of deceased Karabo Mokoena is still outstanding. #SandileMantsoe : The magistrate scolds the prosecutor for the delay in obtaining the forensic report, says “I don’t take nonsense” @ANN7tv — Canny Maphanga (@CannyMaphanga) July 28, 2017 “people are sitting in custody while the police has taken over two months to deal with the forensic report,” said du Plessis. The magistrate asked the state to treat the matter with a sense of urgency and expedite the release of the report. Meanwhile, following the hearing, Mantsoe’s legal representative Victor Simelane, said it was possible that they might apply for bail again adding that “that door is not closed,” Earlier: Karabo Mokoena’s alleged killer Sandile Mantsoe will today return to Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court to make a second bid for bail. Last month the court denied Mantsoe bail citing a need for further investigations into the case. During Mantsoe’s first bail application the investigating officer in the case gave dramatic testimony stating that Mantsoe needed to kill Mokoena because he wanted to destroy “a jinx” which had followed him after the couple broke up. Related: Karabo Mokoena’s alleged killer charged with murder and defeating ends of Justice The officer also said there was no evidence that Mokoena was suicidal but there was evidence that Mantsoe had abused her prior to her murder. Mantsoe was allegedly in a relationship with Karabo Mokoena for 7 months and worked as a forex trader. He was reportedly wanted for the alleged robbery of R2.5 million through forex. Karabo’s death in May sparked outrage across the country and on social media, causing the hashtag #MenAreTrash to go viral. Mokoena, 22, went missing on April 28 and her badly burnt remains were eventually found in Lyndhurst, Johannesburg. -TNA Reporter