THE city of Cape Town will be expediting the delivery of housing opportunities, the fourth annual Affordable Housing Africa conference was told yesterday.The city said that the dire need for housing was the single biggest challenge facing the local government.Yesterday, discussions saw a package of various plans, including work done to identify a number of well located city-owned sites aimed at assisting the local government in expediting the delivery of housing opportunities.The city also outlined its new approach which represented a 180 degree change on how it would confront the urgent demand for affordable and inclusive housing in future. Six months ago I assumed political responsibility for the oversight of the Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA) and today I am proud to discuss our first steps in creating new, affordable well located housing opportunities for our residents that will begin to reverse the tragic spatial impacts of apartheid, the city s TDA head Brett Herron said. Apartheid spatial planning consigned the majority of Cape Town residents to settlements far away from work, where residents had access to limited services and opportunities. Apart from creating a fragmented city, apartheid spatial planning was also characterised by little or no investment to stimulate economic activity in these settlements. We must acknowledge that, to date, our efforts to radically transform Cape Town s spatial reality to enable all of our residents to participate more equally in the local economy have fallen short. Herron estimated that about 650000 families earning less than R13000 a month would rely on the local government for some kind of assistance for housing between now and 2032.He said that it was partly as a result of unemployment, slow economic growth and rapid urbanisation. Cape Town s population has increased by 56% between 1996 and 2016 and this trend is set to continue. Furthermore, our task is exacerbated by the unprecedented growth in the property market in areas close to key nodes of employment and along public transport routes. The investment affirms that Cape Town is a city that works and that more and more South Africans opt to settle here. The flip side of the coin is, however, that inequality is worsened when these investments mostly benefit those who already have access to the free market economy and employment opportunities. He said as much as the city welcomes the investment, there was an obligation on the city and on the private sector to ensure that the inner city and other central business districts are accessible and affordable to those still living on the periphery. This obligation stems from the commitment that is required from all of us to make Cape Town an inclusive and liveable space where there is room for everyone and where we share equal access to opportunities, regardless of race and income. The city must also mitigate against the displacement of residents, especially tenants in rental properties, who have lived their entire lives in suburbs like Woodstock and Salt River where high-end developments are rising at a rapid pace because of the proximity to the Cape Town central business district. NADINE FORD-KRITZINGERnadinef@thenewage.co.za