Early childhood development (ECD) is very important in nurturing lives and needs the participation of all sectors of the community, including the private sector, Northern Cape MEC for social development Gift van Staden said. We need the support of the private sector in addressing the challenges we face regarding early childhood development, especially in terms of sustained funding, training and important infrastructural challenges, especially in rural areas, Van Staden said.He made the comments as part of the department s efforts to continuously improve the quality of ECD services. We have embarked on a process of strengthening our ECD interventions to measure the long-term impact of our ECD programme. The department said it would be embarking on a process to ensure that it enhanced the quality of its ECD. As part of the department s allocation for the 2017-18 financial year, we will be embarking on a process to ensure that we enhance the quality of our ECD services by ensuring that all conditionally registered ECD centres are re-registered in accordance with the Children s Act. And compliant with the norms and standards on ECD and therefore render quality stimulation programmes to 18 382 children in the 0 to four year age cohort. This constitutes access to only 17.5% of the total children aged 0 to four years in the province, the department said.However, van Staden said he was aware that this was not enough if they were to ensure that they maximised the overall development of the children through early development services aimed at cognitive stimulation. We acknowledge that access to centre-based ECD services remains a challenge for many children due to unavailability of such services. During last year s budget speech, the MEC announced that the department would be rolling out non-centre based services in terms of mobile centres, playgroups and home stimulation programmes in the Namakwa, Zwelintlanga Fatman Mgcawu, Pixley ka Seme and John Taolo Gaetsewe districts. I am pleased to announce that these services are up and running and 1 380 children will be benefiting from these interventions across the districts, especially children in far-flung areas where formalisation and construction of ECDs is still a challenge. Statistics South Africa s 2016 mid year population estimates said there were 104 476 children aged from 0 to four years in the Northern Cape province.The Constitution recognises the state s responsibility for children s development by emphasising the need for an effective and integrated system to ensure essential ECD services are accessible to all.Van Staden said as part of the department s efforts to continuously improve the quality of ECD services, we have embarked on a process of strengthening our ECD interventions to measure the long-term impact of our ECD programme . To this effect, we have identified six pilot sites across four districts and we have partnered with the departments of health and education to provide these children at the six sites with a range of services to determine the impact of our ECD services on the cognitive development of these children. provinces@thenewage.co.za