African low-cost airline Fastjet is on its way to clear skies after acquiring all intellectual property rights associated with the Fastjet brand from the EasyGroup, effective immediately. Prior to that, the airline licensed the mark from the EasyGroup and Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, who established the brand in 2012, and founded EasyJet in 1995. Fastjet has paid £2.5m (R43m) for the brand, but it represents significant savings in royalties that will be amortised over the next five years. Founder and shareholder Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou said: “I have accepted the view of the board that the company should own its own brand rather than licence it from me. “We have agreed on a fair price for its transfer – $2.5m – which is less than what the company would have had to pay over the next five years. I still hold shares worth about £1.3m in the company and as such I will be a supportive shareholder, hoping to realise significant upside potential as Fastjet grows and prospers. “From the decisive actions thus far taken by the new management and board and early indicative outcomes, I am encouraged that Fastjet’s direction of travel is now on the right course.” The company has made steady progress in implementing stabilisation efforts, including a re-fleeting process, relocation of its headquarters from London to Johannesburg and rightsizing its operations in Zimbabwe and Tanzania. These steps are having the desired effect and Fastjet aims to achieve a cash flow break-even position for the final quarter of this year. The company, aiming to leverage its relationship with Solenta Aviation Holdings, a strategic investor who acquired a shareholding in Fastjet in January, also has an operational footprint in many African countries, is in the process of evaluating expansion options to further terrains and looks forward to making further announcements soon. Fastjet operates in four African markets, namely Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Zambia and South Africa. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za