Cape Town City captain Lebogang Manyama believes the arrival of new coach Benni McCarthy will help him sharpen his scoring exploits. McCarthy was known for his goal scoring ability during his playing days and is also the leading goalscorer for Bafana Bafana with 32 goals.Manyama, who finished the PSL season as the top goal scorer, feels he should have scored more and that McCarthy will help him to improve his finishing technique. I haven t met Benni yet at the club as I haven t been to training. I was given some days off since I was doing duty for the national team in Nigeria, Manyama said. But we all know what Benni has done for the country and to work with someone like him will benefit the team and me a lot. This season I finished with 13 goals and I feel I could have scored more than that but I missed a lot of chances. This is where working with him will improve my game. I once trained with him while at Ajax Cape Town and then he was still in his prime. I m looking forward to working with him here at the club. The 26 year old said the squad will give McCarthy the same support they gave Eric Tinkler last season. We know what Benni has achieved in football. It s a new challenge for him and he is someone who has a lot to share in football and we are just glad that we are the first people to benefit from all the knowledge that he gained at the highest level of international football. He deserves this chance at coaching us and also the support he will get from us, Manyama said.After already being confirmed as the PSL top goal scorer with 13 goals, Manyama has also been nominated for the footballer of the season and player s player of the season awards for the league s end of season awards on Monday. Manyama was also nominated for the Telkom Knockout player of the tournament award. He is favoured to walk away with the big prize, the footballer of the season award. Bidvest Wits captain Thulani Hlatswayo and Mamelodi Sundowns skipper Hlompho Kekana have also been nominated for the award. I have to be confident that I can win but, at the same time, I need to be humble and respect the other guys up for the award, Manyama said. To be nominated in this category against such top players is an honour and I m looking forward to the awards on Monday. It has been a great season for me and the Cape Town City squad. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za