SAFA CEO Dennis Mumble said the football association is happy with the consultative approach of CAF and fully supports the general trend of the discussions at its symposium.Speaking from the symposium that is under way in Morocco, Mumble said Safa also backed the recommendations to expand the Africa Cup of Nations finals to 24 teams and changes to the dates of the biennial tournament. Mumble sat in a commission that reported back from the eight workshops that were part of the symposium yesterday, which is expected to give a clearer picture of the recommendations that will go to the CAF executive committee (exco) for possible ratification today. As Safa we are happy with the consultative approach and the general trend of discussions. We await the exco s guidance on these recommendations, Mumble said. The symposium is a good idea. It was the commission that I attended that made the recommendation for a 24-team tournament. The exco will have to consider the implementation date. But word is rife in the Moroccan capital Rabat that the continental governing body exco will ratify the recommendations to move the dates for the soon to be expanded competition today and make the announcement after the congress tomorrow.The club versus country row often breaks out as overseas-based players invariably find themselves torn between committing to their clubs, which pay their huge salaries and national duty.This put the players at odds with coaches and has often led to premature retirements of internationals. That is the first thing to talk about. We can t get away from it, CAF president Ahmad said. We have already had a lot of suggestions. A record number of players shunned participation in this year s tournament in Gabon, opting to stay with their clubs.Issa Hayatou dug in his heels, refusing to entertain suggestions about staging the flagship Afcon tournament in June and July, arguing the weather temperatures weren t favourable. Africa has its peculiarities, like the great distances our clubs have to travel, Ahmad said. Clubs having to travel via Europe to play games is folly. We need solutions. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha