THE streets of Kagiso township will now be safer since a suspected serial rapist who was attacking women in the area, is behind bars. The suspect, 37, has been linked to more than 10 cases of rape reported in Kagiso since November 2016. The police believe they have made a breakthrough by arresting the man on Monday in Tshepisong. Members of the West Rand family violence, child protection and sexual offences unit say they are hoping more victims who were raped in other areas might come forward as the investigation is continuing. The suspect appeared in the Kagiso Magistrate’s Court yesterday on charges of rape and robbery. Col Lungelo Dlamini said his case was postponed to November 2 for a formal bail application and investigation. “Most of the victims were approached at Park Station taxi rank and the suspect would travel with them to Tsepitsong and raped them in an open field near from a local factory,” Dlamini said. He said this would happen in the afternoon and early evenings on Fridays and Saturdays. “Most of the victims were robbed of cellphones and cash. Some of the victims’ items were found in his possession,” Dlamini said. He said the suspect might face more charges as investigations are continuing. The provincial commissioner of Gauteng, Lt-Gen Deliwe de Lange, praised the units involved in the case for their quick action and investigation after realising that a serial rapist was likely on the loose. “I strongly condemn the attacks and brutal rapes of defenceless women and I appeal to members of the community to work together with the police to identify rapists in our society,” De Lange said. Last year, seven men were arrested for robbing a couple in the same area. The suspects robbed the women of two cellphones, a school bag and wallet and then assaulted her. Two other suspects then raped her. They were arrested after an accused serial rapist identified the seven suspects as his accomplices while he was in custody. NONDUMISO ZWANE nondumisoz@thenewage.co.za