The big expectation of AS Vita is that Mamelodi Sundowns take their foot off the pedal when the two teams meet in a CAF Champions League, but Pitso Mosimane s charges are not about to do that.The Brazilians, along with Esperance of Tunisia, are already through to the quarterfinals, but the defending CAF Champions League winners are gunning for top stop. Buoyed by their qualification and the launch of their new strip for the new season, Sundowns striker Percy Tau said the main intention will be to play the next game like it was the team s last and forget that they have already made it to the last eight.This might also be Sundowns best shot at avenging their 2-2 aggregate score loss to Vita last year where Kule Mbombo scored a vital away goal to knock the Brazilians out of the competition which they returned to and later won. I always look to play a better game than my last. Continuous improvement in my game is my biggest motivation, the Sundowns talisman said. The Brazilians are second on the log with eight points, with Esperance leading the way on nine. Having failed to register a goal in Sundowns last few matches, Tau said he would love to end the drought as he is fast getting familiar with his new role of being a false striker in Pitso Mosimane s tactics. I was excited (when I was introduced to the new position). What I enjoy about it is that I get to play in the half spaces and between the lines. I m still learning more about it but one of the skills needed is to see situations early. I also want to use that to contribute more goals to the team, the Sundowns striker said.Should Sundowns win their Sunday clash against AS Vita at the Lucas Moripe stadium and Esperance fail to beat St George, Mosimane s men will finish top of the log with 11 points and avoid possible Group D winners Zanaco, thereby setting up a date with Morocco outfit Wydad Casablanca. But if they finish in second spot, they will take on Zanaco in the last eight, a year after they booted out another Zambian side, Zesco United, in the semifinals.Sundowns players will be back in training tomorrow after coach Mosimane gave them three days off since they returned from Ethiopia on Sunday, when they recorded a vital 1-0 win over St George. Sundowns will likely welcome players such as Wayne Arendse and Asavela Mbekile back to their playing squad following their successful recovery from injury.-MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage. co.za