IT IS a known fact globally that football rewards goal scorers but Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has extolled his goalkeeper Denis Onyango for a crucial penalty save against St George in the CAF Champions League.Onyango loomed large against a team he played for 10 years ago, giving Sundowns a chance to make it to the quarterfinals, which they took through Anthony Laffor s 85th minute winner. His heroics come days after Chile s Claudio Bravo saved three straight penalties against Portugal in the Fifa Confederations Cup, highlighting that goalkeepers too can be match winners.Mosimane lauded his Ugandan goalkeeper s important penalty stop and said those were the benefits of having an African player of the year on your books. We were lucky we saved it but Denis is Africa player of the year. He is experienced. If he goes the right way, he makes the save. That is football. You sometimes need a bit of luck.I won t say it is luck that Denis saved it. But this is where you get to appreciate having the best goalkeeper on the continent, Mosimane said.Sundowns progression to the quarterfinals was also helped by Esperance drawing 2-2 with AS Vita, meaning even if the Brazilians lose to AS Vita in the last match, St George will finish on eight points, equal with Mosimane s side.Sundowns will still go through because CAF recognises head to head results rather than goal difference. The reigning CAF Champions League winners came under a barrage of attacks early in the match but Onyango was majestic between the sticks, with defenders like Motjeka Madisha and Soumahoro Bangaly preventing the Addis Ababa side from scoring.To some extent, Sundowns exploited the desperation and naivety of St George in trying to get a winner because victory was going to be enough for them to pip Sundowns. We can t say we gave them a chance to play in the first half. We knew what was coming at us. They knew they had to win to qualify. They opened up and left us to play in the midfield. We got a lot of balls. They attacked because they were home. We controlled the game. Everyone was falling on the pitch. Maybe things could have been different if the pitch was better, Mosimane said.His side will play AS Vita at the Lucas Moripe Stadium on Sunday, when Sundowns can to finish first and hopefully face Moroccan side Wydad Casablanca, or finish second, where they are likely to face possible Group D winners Zanaco of Zambia.But this will also depend on how Esperance play against St George in their last match. Sundowns arrived back in the country yesterday, getting a few days off to recover from their travels.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane