The remaining three days of the fifth policy conference of the ANC will test President Jacob Zuma s hold on branches against the backdrop of the contentious diagnostic report presented by secretary-general Gwede Mantashe.Mantashe s 25-page diagnostic report, presented late on Friday, painted a bleak picture of the party s current state.In the report Mantashe pointed fingers at the party s leadership for causing South Africans to lose hope and trust in the party.He said leaders had failed to give direction when it was most needed. The leadership when confronted by challenges gravitate to general discussions. It seeks to find solutions that make it difficult to find proper closure and therefore fudge issues. This creates a reality of a leadership that cannot give direction when it is needed the most. This shows defensiveness in the face of challenges, his report stated.The report was faced with opposition from some sections of the party who felt it was not the party s norm to give an overview of the state of affairs at the start of a policy conference.ANC Youth League president Collen Maine stressed that the policy conference was not about pointing fingers but self-correcting . We need to self-correct and we believe this is the right platform to do so, he said.Earlier on Friday, Zuma also urged delegates to go beyond just diagnosing problems but to craft solutions.He reminded his detractors, who have been calling for him to step down, that the power to hire and fire him lay with the branches. You elect a president and some people, who have no right, tell you this president must go. They don t consult you and you guys just keep silent. You are the only ones who can hire and fire, he said.Zuma was referring to a group of people in the ANC national executive committee, led by Derek Hanekom and Joel Netshitenzhe, who have previously called for him to step down as the country s president. That s the reason why they can tell you, The president is wrong, we want him out . They don t come to you to say, You elected this fellow and this fellow is messing up. We ask you to remove him . They think they ve got power and everything, Zuma said.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmthokozisid@thenewage.co.za