The Treasury has downplayed reports that Finance Minister  was scheduled to unveil an action plan on Friday detailing structural changes and timelines to boost growth to 6% in an economy mired in recession. This followed reports last Monday, during the ANC policy conference, where Gigaba was quoted saying the plan would be released two days after the policy conference ended on Wednesday. In an interview with The New Age, Maihlome Tshwete, Gigaba’s spokesperson, said the department did not know where the 6% number came from, or anything about Gigaba unveiling an action plan. GDP growth of 6% would be almost impossible to achieve in the short term, experts said. “We have been receiving a lot of inquiries regarding this issue but we don’t know where it comes from. “The minister is attending the G20 Summit in Germany. “We know nothing about unveiling an action plan,” he said. “We will implement steps to get the economy growing at 6% and more,” Gigaba was quoted as saying at an event marking the launch of the tax-filing season last Monday. But this appeared to be wrong, according to the Treasury. Meanwhile, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) warned the country that its economy was extremely vulnerable to external shocks and funding shortfalls, although it stuck by its earlier growth forecast of 1% this year. In an executive report following a country visit in the last week of June, the Fund also said policy uncertainty linked to political turbulence would weigh on business and consumer confidence. “Following last year’s near-standstill in economic activity, growth is projected to increase to 1% in 2017 and 1.2% in 2018, still insufficient to keep pace with the rising population,” the IMF said in the report. The country’s gross domestic product contracted 0.7% in the first quarter after contracting 0.3% in the fourth quarter of 2016, dragging the economy into its first recession in nearly a decade. “External and domestic contexts could result in significant shocks, especially if accompanied by further downgrades of local currency sovereign credit ratings to below investment grade,” the fund said. On government debt, the IMF said: “Low growth has taken a toll on the state of the public finances, increasing government debt.” It said the government’s balance sheet was also exposed to sizable contingent liabilities from state-owned enterprises. Last week Gigaba announced a R2.3bn bailout of South African Airways. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za