Inflation continued to fall in June, to 5.1% year on year from 5.4% y/y in May, Stats SA said yesterday. This is good news for consumers and adds to the argument for an interest rate cut tomorrow – although most commentators still see the Reserve Bank retaining current rates. The main contributor to the slowing consumer inflation (CPI) rate was the transport component, while food prices remained steady. The 0.3 percentage point drop was bigger than expected, at 0.1% point lower than a Reuters poll of economists had predicted. Inflation in some retail segments such as clothing, furniture and appliances continued to moderate or contract in June. This reflects the effects of past rand appreciation, the weak demand environment and likely, increased competitive forces. These considerations have also seen core inflation subside to 4.8% y/y from the recent peak of 5.9% y/y last December, Investec economist Kamilla Kaplan said. She said that at tomorrow’s monetary policy committee meeting the Reserve Bank is likely to lower its inflation profile of 5.7% y/y this year, 5.3% y/y next year and 5.5% in 2019, as the more recent downside surprises in the CPI outcomes are incorporated. “With the Bank’s focus on the longerterm inflation profile, it is probable that its 18-24 month CPI forecasts would need to decrease toward the mid-range of the target range before policy easing is considered,” Kaplan said. SA Reserve Bank economist Annabel Bishop said the Bank will not cut the repo rate. Regardless of the recession “the SA economy was also in recession early last year, at the time from the expenditure side and no interest rate cuts were forthcoming then”. Bishop said the Reserve Bank had been unable to explain that for it to consider interest cut, the CPI inflation forecast would need to fall to 4.5% (inflation target median) over the forecast period. Kaplan said that “at tomorrow’s MPC meeting the Bank is likely to lower its inflation profile of 5.7% y/y in 2017, 5.3% y/y in 2018 and 5.5% in 2019, as more recent downside surprises in the CPI outcomes are incorporated”. -NONHLANHLA MASEKO|business@thenewage.co.za