THERE are those who believe in waiting for some luck, while there are those like Riyaad Norodien who would rather make their own. After being left out of the initial Bafana Bafana squad for the Castle Cosafa Cup, Norodien was called on the eve of the tournament to replace injured Aubrey Ngoma and he has since stolen the limelight, emerging as South Africa s best player at the tournament.Not only has he earned plaudits from Bafana coach Stuart Baxter, he managed to score a magnificent goal in the 2-0 win over Botswana in the Plate semifinal.That goal, along with a stoppage time strike from Judas Moseamedi, will see Bafana face Namibia tomorrow evening in the plate final. Norodien, who turns out for Orlando Pirates in the Absa Premiership, stressed how important it was for Bafana to dust themselves off after the loss to Tanzania in the opening match and do well enough to reach the Plate final.The winger also took the time to heap praise on the talent in the national squad doing duty in Rustenburg. It was highly important to get a victory after such a disappointing result (loss to Tanzania). We let in a silly goal. The boys did well against Botswana. We were fighting together and helping one another. The coach gave us a plan and a good structure to operate with. He told us what to do and how to do it. The boys executed the plan well, which is why we scored the two goals. We have a bunch of good up and coming players. They are 12 months from making their full Bafana debuts hopefully myself included. We just need to keep calm, keep our feet on the ground and work hard. In Stuart Baxter, we have a great coach and leader. There are always opportunities to come into the national setup. We have to start small even though we are highly ambitious as a country, the winger said. He said they would be expecting a tough match from Namibia tomorrow, but promised that Bafana would not be easy to stop. Every match will be tough. If we do what the coach wants, we can kill off teams easily. We will need composure and clear thinking behind everything we do. We will have to improve on the field. We want to end the tournament well with a clear victory. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane