Renewd calls for a state-owned bank came under the spotlight again at the ANC policy conference at Nasrec Soweto yesterday. ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize said there were growing calls from within the party for the creation of a black-owned bank that would cater to the needs of small businesses.Responding to business leaders at the Progressive Business Forum s business breakfast briefing, Mkhize said such a bank could help small businesses and entrepreneurs who are getting a raw deal from big banks. He called for thorough discussions . A black-owned bank would be able to create more avenues for small businesses to source funding, he said.At the same time, Mkhize said the private sector shouldn t implement transformation only because the law required it, but should rather understand the economic gains to be had from transformation. This followed a launch of a radical economic transformation manifesto last week by one of South Africa s leading apex business organisations, Business Unity South Africa. Mkhize said the ruling party was taking the blame for what he called wrong investment patterns in the townships, saying these had allowed the private sector to kill township entrepreneurs.Observers poured cold water on the overused idea of a state-owned bank, pointing out that the state could lose the opportunity to buy Mercantile Bank, which has had for sale signs up for three months. Mercantile is due to name shortlisted suitors this week.The government and black business lobby groups have been calling for a black-owned, or state-owned, bank. Mercantile Bank has been put up for sale not because it is losing money or market share, but because its 100% owner, Portugal s largest bank Caixa Geral de Dep sitos, has to restructure as part of its bailout agreement with the European Central Bank. Mercantile was the first SA bank to cater exclusively for entrepreneurs since it was founded in 1965. It still focuses on small businesses and has the capability to offer similar products to those offered by its traditional rivals.Mkhize said bigger banks seem to have neglected smaller businesses in providing support to stimulate economic growth. Meanwhile, Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago yesterday reiterated that South Africa risks slipping into a long and painful economic recession if the central bank is forced to abandon its policy of reducing inflation and protecting the currency.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za