Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday launched a bid to deter the SACP from contesting elections separately from the ANC at the 2019 general elections.Addressing delegates attending the SACP s national congress in Boksburg, Ramaphosa said if the communists broke away from the alliance out of anger towards the ANC, it would only serve to hasten its death .Ramaphosa, speaking over murmurings of disagreement from some SACP delegates, said while the nucleus for sustaining the ANC-led tripartite alliance remained tenuous, the alliance forged through blood and struggle was not beyond salvaging. As you look at this motion of whether the SACP should go off on its own and contest elections to pursue state power, I would want you to pause before you sign on that resolution, pause a little comrades, pause just for a minute. Ask yourselves are we better off united or divided. Are we better off as one strand or are we better off as two strands, the ANC on one side contesting elections and the SACP on the other side? Ramaphosa s comments come as 1 800 voting delegates at the party s national congress are set to decide on whether the party should break away from the alliance to meet the ANC at the ballot box in 2019.Against the weight of strained ANC and SACP relations over the leadership of President Jacob Zuma, the SACP has bemoaned the trend of being increasingly isolated from an ANC-led centre under Zuma s leadership.However, Ramaphosa cautioned SACP delegates against making the decision to leave the alliance in a haphazard manner.He said party delegates should think circumspectly before adopting the resolution. Out of this congress, we do not expect decisions or resolutions that are going to weaken the alliance, we expect contrary decisions that are going to strengthen and build and unite the alliance. This decision should not be based on anger, it should not be based on the short term, it should be based on looking at the long term. Ramaphosa also tackled allegations of state capture.He said that as the web of revelations slowly unspooled, he would not remain silent until a judicial commission of inquiry was established to get to the nub of the matter. When things are spewing up in our national discourse, we cannot turn a blind eye to these revelations nor can we keep quiet. We cannot keep quiet. We cannot, under the weight of ever more disclosures, become numb to what is happening in this country. We now know, without any shred of uncertainty, that billions of rand of public resources have been diverted into the pockets of a few. We also know taxpayers of this country paid for a lavish wedding that took place in Sun City and we also know these resources rightfully belonged to the people of South Africa. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za