Stats SA is expected today to release more disappointing figures on manufacturing production and sales for May. They are likely to confirm that the sector is well into a recession. SA’s economy went into its second recession in eight years in the first quarter of 2017 as trade and manufacturing shrank. Two key purchasing managers’ indices (PMIs) released by Absa and Standard Bank also point out that the state of the manufacturing sector is in the doldrums. In his book, The Missing Piece, published three years ago, Kevin Lings named manufacturing as one of “the falling darlings” in terms of its contribution to the country’s GDP growth. “The sector has lost its grip in the past 20 years, and much needs to be done to bring it back to where it was as the main driver for jobs,” he said. Investec group economist Kamilla Kaplan said manufacturing is likely to have under-performed in the second quarter, and that this would be the case for the fourth consecutive quarter too. Kaplan said manufacturing production is projected to have declined by 4.9% y/y in May compared to a contraction of 4.1% y/y in April. “Based on this, the manufacturing sector is likely to continue to underperform throughout the second quarter of this year. In particular, in the second quarter of 2017, the manufacturing business confidence deteriorated to the lowest level since the 2008-09 recession while the manufacturing PMI averaged 47.6 in the second quarter, signalling a contraction in activity,” she said. However, the mining production schedule to be released on Thursday is expected to have lifted by 1.0% y/y in May versus a 1.7% y/y increase in April. In the year to April, it increased by 5.9% y/y compared to the decline of 5% in 2016. The improved performance of the mining sector, according to analysts, would remain a feature this year, in tandem with commodity prices sustaining moderate rebound. “Manufacturing supplies the mining sector. If mining is down, it will automatically impact on manufacturing,” analysts have said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za