A furious Mpumalanga community has blasted two white farmers as heartless and disrespectful after they started clearing the communal graveyard, reportedly to start farming on it.The community of Barclay Vale, which is located along the N4 20km outside the Nelspruit city centre, is up in arms over farmers Kobus Joubert and Nicholas van Zyl attempting to evict them earlier this month.Many were enraged that their loved ones final resting places could be razed by the farmers who said they had bought land claimed by the community and gazetted more than 10 years ago.The farmers were recently stopped by members of the community after clearing part of the graveyard.Resident Dorcas Maphanga, said the farmers had gone too far by tampering with the graves and vowed that residents would fight with everything to put a stop to their madness . My father was laid to rest here and as a black person a grave is precious to me. This really angers me, it s the highest level of disrespect and heartlessness, Maphanga said.Maphanga s daughter, Nomcebo, said the farmers actions revived thoughts of apartheid. It angers me because all my grandparents are buried here. It revives apartheid memories and makes me feel like we re back in apartheid, Nomcebo said.Another resident, Mduduzi Ndlovu, said touching the graves was insulting. I m deeply hurt because this represents our roots. When the going gets tough, this is where I come to ask for direction from my ancestors. My father is here, my grandfather here and these farmers can t get away with this, Ndlovu said.Joubert refused to comment on the matter, saying it would be settled in court. He, however, insisted that the land belonged to him despite the fact that it was claimed and gazetted over 10 years ago.In fact, Joubert has cut water supplies to the community, leaving 145 families without water.Christina Dlamini said as a result of the disconnection, they had to walk 5km to get water. We have to walk 5km because they ve cut the water. It s exactly three months now since they cut it. If you want to get firewood they stop you, saying it s their land, Dlamini said.Rural Development and Land Reform Deputy Minister Candith Mashego-Dlamini said the farmers had no right to destroy graves and cut the water supply as he was aware that the land was already claimed and gazetted.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za