The  multibillion-rand construction industry will soon be almost completely in the hands of black citizens, given the strides that has been made to date. This was the view of Minister of Economic Development Ebrahim Patel addressing the Progressive Business breakfast at the ANC policy conference at Nasrec yesterday. “The big construction companies will be 100% owned by blacks,” he said, adding that the new mandate of the IDC, urgently to disburse funds to black industrialists, was working. “For example, Kutana construction, which is owned by black women, is now the majority shareholder of construction group Aveng. This followed the move in 2005 by Basil Read to sell almost 52% of the group to a black consortium,” Patel said. A process is under way to open the entire construction sector to black ownership, he said. “Murray & Roberts has sold its entire businesses to a consortium of black South Africans, and WBHO is following.” Patel said other similar deals are on the pipeline which will see black ownership on the JSE increasing. An agreement was signed in October in which the government and seven listed construction companies agreed to accelerate transformation in the industry. It was reached with companies with a combined annual revenue of R45bn, comprising WBHO, Aveng, Murray & Roberts, Group Five, Basil Read, Raubex and Stefanutti Stocks. The seven companies agreed to collectively contribute R1.5bn over 12 years to a fund for socio-economic development to help transformation. Patel said since the agreement, there has been a lot of progress and that the dominance of blacks in the industry is starting to emerge. Worryingly, confidence in the industry has remain flat in the past years as a result of slow pace for the government to invest more in infrastructure. A recent PwC survey revealed that growth in the sector has been in a slump since 2009. But Patel said the government would be pumping billions into infrastructure projects that would revive the industry. The FNB/BER Civil Confidence Index fell to 28 in the second quarter of 2017 and along with the first quarter of 2016, is the joint lowest confidence rating. Aveng said its sale of a 51% stake to a women- and black-owned company demonstrated the group’s commitment to economic transformation. Fatsani Banda, an independent analyst, said although Patel has hailed the growing transfer of the ownership of the construction sector into black hands as a step forward for the country, in particular breaking the concentration of white ownership of the manufacturing and construction sector, the industry has been lacklustre of late. “Without a growing economy it will be difficult to see the economic gains of black ownership. Politically there may be a change of hands from black to white, but the bread and butter of transformation is taking place in an economy in recession,” she said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za