Recent proposals by the Basic Education Department to exclude Mathematics from a list of compulsory subjects for grades 7 to 9 has been described as a worrying development.The department made the controversial proposals as a way of trying to promote the passage of more pupils to upper grades. Apparently most pupils are said to be stuck between the mentioned grades and they end up dropping out of school because they cannot pass the mathematics hurdle.Proposals include that pupils must pass at least four subjects at 40%, one of which is a home language, that they should pass four other subjects at 30% and that mathematics be removed as a compulsory subject for promotion requirements.Many people have expressed outrage at the proposals, accusing those who formulated them of trying to cure symptoms rather than the disease.Acting deputy vice-chancellor at North West University, Robert Balfour, questioned why maths was singled out as perhaps the sole cause of poor pass rates.Together with a team of experts from the NWU, Balfour said the proposal will only further fuel pupils negative approach to an already poor mathematics record in the country. Why is mathematics singled out as the main culprit for poor pass rates? If pupils and teachers realise that they need not pass maths to pass the grade, it might allow for teachers to spend less time on mathematics, and it will impact negatively on pupils motivation to study mathematics, Balfour said.He said perhaps better methods of teaching the subject could be explored so that pupils can have interest. Pupils in grade 7 and even in 8 are barely in the position to make an informed decision whether they are interested in the subject. A real interest in mathematics can only be fostered when comprehension of mathematics is achieved. With good and purposeful teaching of mathematics, perhaps a love, or at least an appreciation, of mathematics might be instilled in more pupils. This ideal could possibly be better addressed if mathematics teachers could apply their energy rather to support mathematically able pupils with the demonstrated ability to pursue careers in which a high level of conceptual and conditional understanding of mathematics is required, he said.Mathematics is deemed a sufficiently significant subject that all pupils are expected to continue with up to Grade 12, whether it be in the form of mathematics or mathematical literacy. If mathematics is important enough to be compulsory up to Grade 12, surely it is important enough that pupils are required to pass the subject in Grade 9 in order to progress with secondary school studies in the FET phase? It does not make sense to keep mathematics as a compulsory subject if its value and worth is diminished at the lower grades. This presents a mixed message. If this is the line of reasoning, perhaps the DBE should reconsider making maths compulsory up to Grade 12, Balfour said.The argument is that unlike other subjects, mathematics is said to have a strong linear progression where concepts learnt at lower level help in the understanding of concepts at a higher level. As a result, the subject has to be learnt as a package.Balfour and his team said that there should be clear minds when it comes to deciding on the implications of the proposals for they may have more negative implications than a mere act of seeking to progress pupils. In principle we support the idea that not all pupils will eventually need mathematics for admission to tertiary study, or for the specific career path that they choose to follow. If mathematics is removed as a promotional requirement, perhaps the solution is to create different strands in which pupils at the end of Grade 9 can either leave school, continue with different forms of mathematics, (and not mathematical literacy) according to their future studies or not take mathematics at all. We strongly advise that mathematical literacy be incorporated into life orientation, as all pupils need the numeracy skills as proposed in the aims of the mathematical literacy curriculum. But as long as the name of the subject include the word mathematics or mathematical , we are going to see unnecessary confusion about the tertiary/ career opportunities that the subject gives access to, he said.The academic further called for equipping of teachers so that they deliver on the subject rather than sacrificing the subject because the pass rate does not look good.-ELFAS TORERAI