KwaZulu-Natal African National Congress Women&#8217;s League (ANCWL) says it is not surprised by Makhosi Khoza s misunderstanding of her role as a Member of Parliament.The woman s league said Khoza has for many years behaved like a &#8216;loose cannon&#8217;. We are not completely surprised by her lack of understanding a mandate given to her by the African National Congress that deployed her as a Member of Parliament.Makhosi s history in the ANC has no blank pages as she had over the years behaved as a loose cannon. It s not new that she portrays herself as a super member of the organisation, the league said in a statement.The woman s league statement comes after several pronouncements by Khoza asking for President Jacob Zuma to step down as state president.Speaking at a dialogue organised by Save SA and the Kathrada Foundation Khoza said while she may not live to vote in the upcoming vote of no confidence against Zuma, she cannot run away from the public outcry. In case I can t make it to, 8 August 2017, Mr President your role as the president is haunting the South African nation. Please step down,&#8221; she said.The League said they were aware of Khoza s opportunistic behaviour to collude with organisations which were formed by individuals who left the movement under a cloud in their agenda to remove the ANC from power.The league added that Khoza s attack on the movement was not new, adding that the organisation had to blame its self for being tolerant of her rants whenever she has been overlooked for a senior position. In 2011, Khoza cried foul accusing the ANC after she withdrew her application for the eThekwini Municipality City Manager Post. She accused the ANC leadership that had deployed her to the Provincial Legislature as a Chief Whip. We also aware that she resigned as MPL after she was deployed as the MEC, said the ANCWL.]Meanwhile, Khoza took to her Facebook page hit back at the party&#8217;s authenticity questioning whether it had a power to institute disciplinary action against her. Does a structure whose legitimacy is questioned and which has to validate its existence has the power to institute disciplinary proceedings? Please, Comrades, don&#8217;t use my legitimate and rational call to legitimise yourselves,&#8221; she said.Khoza further said the provincial leadership should first go to court and cleansed itself, adding that she refused to submit herself to such structure. I refuse to subject myself to such a structure, go to court first and cleanse yourself. I remain loyal to the mission of the ANC and not the Johny come late who do not care about the people but their own pockets.&#8220;I am disciplined and am trying to fix the image and save the ANC mission which is being molested publicly. Are we together? Respectfully my comrades, she concluded.TNA Reporter