Over the past 13 years, Zakes Bantwini, real name Zakhele Madida, has rocked dance music fans with hit songs such as Shake Your Bum Bum and I m From The Ghetto. In 2014, the dance music maestro was appointed as Sony Music s executive head of artists and repertoire (A&amp;R).Before then, the Durban-born singer, producer and music entrepreneur launched to great acclaim the career of kwaito artist Lvovo De Rango and many others. Having released three successful albums, the recently married music man is back to reclaim his spot after a brief hiatus from recording music.His new album, Love, Lights and Music 2, is a celebration of his newly found romance and follows on his last release, The Fake Book &amp; Real Book: My Music Bible, which came out in 2013. Love, Lights and Music 2 is a sequel to my debut album, Love, Light and Music Song, released in 2010. Like with that album, it is music you can dance to, but also because it is very musical, it is music you can sit down and listen to. I also sing about love and pain on both these albums, Bantwini told The New Age in a recent interview.The original, Love, Light and Music Song served to launch the KwaMashu artist s solo career with hit songs such as Clap Your Hands and Wasting My Time.This knack for dishing out club bangers continued with subsequent releases, with such hits as Ghetto, Karolina and Ifunaye among others. Last year, the 36 year old tied the knot with TV presenter and vocalist Nandi Mngoma and towards the end of last year their now eight month old son Shaka was born. I had to take a bit of a break to focus on my family in between creating an African footprint not only for myself but for other South African musicians. Right now the plan to is to impact Africa with my music as we have not been focussing on growing your brands within the continent. When I first collaborated with J Martins on the song Ifunaye in 2012, the doors to Africa were pretty much closed. But right now South African artists are starting to collaborate with other African artists, which is good for our brand in the continent. Ahead of the album release, Bantwini said much of his domestic life, getting married and having a son had inspired him to create new music which culminated into the music on the new album. I say this with no hesitation, Love, Lights and Music 2 is my best work yet. Even when I had wanted to collaborate with a wide range of artists who made all sorts of excuses, it is still a great album. Those who wanted to be part of the album came through, and I am grateful that the legend Bra Hugh Masekela came to the party and did a song with me. The 12 track offering features songs such as Amantombazane, Dancing Trumpet and Bang Bang Bang among others. He says when he made a call to some local and international artists, they wanted to talk figures before music and he was put off by that. I wanted to collaborate with as many musicians as I could on this album, but was disappointed when some of the artists wanted to get paid before even contributing to the album. But I am glad that Tellaman, DJ Maphorisa, Nana Atta and Hugh Masekela and others made time to be part of this album. SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za