ANC NEC member Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma believes the ruling party has come out of the fifth policy conference united and poised to maintain harmony ahead of the December elective conference.She said this at the close of the six-day policy conference yesterday at Nasrec. We are more united than we were when we came. But obviously unity is not an event, we have to keep working at it, she said.President Jacob Zuma made similar sentiments in his closing speech. He praised delegates and participants at the conference saying they had demonstrated deep understanding that the ANC remained the strategic centre of power.He described the past six days as very fruitful and successful . We emerged much wiser and better in understanding strengths and weaknesses. We have a keen understanding of our challenges and how to tackle them. We are more united in purpose than when we came here, he said.He said that the ANC remained committed to the fact that what unites the party is more important than what divides it.The former Africa Union Commission chairperson, Dlamini Zuma, said one of the key positives from the just-ended conference was the collective understanding of the need to keep the movement united. We have discussed proposals and the key thing is to unite the organisation. We are aware that when we are united we stand and divided we fall, she said.Dlamini Zuma, tipped as one of the frontrunners to replace Zuma as party leader in December, said her fate was in the hands of branches. She said she was ready to serve for as long as the branches backed her. The conference will decide that, I am a cadre of the organisation and I will do what the organisation wants me to do, she said.She cleared the air on assertions peddled by some sections of local media that delegates were divided over the white monopoly capital philosophy.She said delegates were in agreement that elsewhere in the world the philosophy was rightly referred to as monopoly capital, but that did not apply in South Africa s case because of the dominance of whites in economic matters. It s a minority of white conglomerates who dominate the economy so I don t think it s even an issue. You look at the food and beverages industry, as well as construction all those conglomerates are white. We agreed that it was monopoly capital elsewhere in the world, but in South Africa it is white monopoly capital because our economy is dominated by a few white conglomerates. Nobody can show me black conglomerates that are dominating the economy. It is because of our history it is white, she said.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za