The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) has called on its members not to participate in any unsanctioned 10111 emergency call centre workers marches. The union was concerned at the continued use of social media platforms by detractors in an attempt to mislead its members to join a planned strike not sanctioned by it. Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said this was a plan to recruit its members. “It is solely aimed at creating a false impression and those who are behind it are ignorant of the fact that there are processes that have not come to an end and they are jumping the gun,” he said. Mamabolo said the process of conciliation and mediation had passed without any resolution to the matter. “We are proceeding with arbitration and are waiting for a date for the hearing. The outcomes will be communicated then,” he said. Mamabolo said they remained resolute in addressing the matters through correct procedures as provided for by the constitution of the council and marching or striking can only seek to undermine the process which is under way. “We are of the view that the ongoing arbitration process will be able to resolve the 10111 matter in a way that will be for the benefit of all workers. We therefore call on our members not to participate in activities that are not sanctioned by us and should we take action, we will do so in consultation with members,” Mamabolo said. In June, call centre staff from Pretoria marched to the offices of the minister of police over salary disputes. They wanted to be paid on par with call centre operators in other spheres of the government. Minister Fikile Mbalula said he would look into their demands that are now being negotiated. The South African Police Union (Sapu) at the time said call centre staff’s salaries were not increased from level 5 to level 7 as recommended by a task team two years ago. The task team, which was put together by then national police commissioner Gen Riah Phiyega benchmarked the 10111 workers’ salaries against other call centres in the country including home affairs, the South Africa Social Security Agency, the South African Revenue Service, Crime Stop and the presidential hotline call centres. Sapu says the task team recommended on the report that the salary level at 10111 should be upgraded to salary level seven (about R226211 a year), which was also approved by the provincial management which includes the provincial commissioner. NONDUMISO ZWANE news@theneweage.co.za