Obesity is a medical condition that s not just linked to overeating but to serious mental health implications in South Africa.Dr Ian Westmore, board member of the Psychiatry Management Group (PsychMG) said despite this fact, research had focused neither on understanding the psychological impact of living with obesity nor the influence of mental health on the development of obesity. Studies have shown that patients with a mental illness such as depression are seen to be at higher risk of developing obesity. This is one of the examples of what we call the bilateral relationship between the two. We know from a psychological perspective that people who are overweight or obese are also at higher risk of developing mental health conditions, he said.The Canadian Obesity Network has linked a range of mental illnesses, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression, to increased risk of overweight and obesity and obesity-related illnesses, such as diabetes and coronary heart disease. We know for instance, that in mental illnesses that we see primarily in children there is also a relationship such as hyperactivity disorder, learning disability and depression which are all common in obese children, Westmore said. A lot of mental functions, appetite and moods are controlled by the brain. The brain is part of your nervous system which has an association with the stress hormone. If you have a chronic stress disorder you could have high levels of the stress hormones excreted in a short period of time and that puts you at risk of not only developing a post traumatic disorder but also a mental health problem, he said.Westmore said in most cases stigma played a significant role in the way that mental illness was perceived and how patients were able to get treatment. Obesity in most cases starts when you are very young developing your self image. Children can be quite cruel and stigmatise you, saying all sorts of nasty things to you and you start developing a self image which is not healthy because of your weight problem. That already puts you at the risk of being depressed, more withdrawn and isolated, which puts you at risk of developing mental problems at a later stage, he said.According to the Medical Research Council, South Africa has the highest obesity rate in sub-Saharan Africa with just more than 61% of its population overweight or obese. In certain cultures in South Africa s multicultural society, it is considered a positive thing to be overweight as it is associated with better health. Some people don t want to be seen losing weight because people might think they are sick, Westmore said. 701478-TNA REPORTER