Although the speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete has decided the House of Assembly will host a no confidence debate in President Jacob Zuma on August 8, she is yet to decide whether voting should be held in secret or by open ballot. The matter of whether the vote will be conducted through a secret ballot is receiving consideration, she said.Mbete said she was mindful that the powers to make a determination regarding voting procedures solely rest with the speaker, as clarified by the Constitutional Court. The speaker has invited interested parties to submit their views regarding their preferred means of voting on this particular motion, she said. The views of the parties, considered together with a host of other factors, including the prevailing conditions, would assist the speaker to arrive at a well-informed and logical decision, she said.In terms of Rule 26 of the Assembly rules, the speaker should canvass the views of office-bearers and structures with regard to certain matters. This having been done, it was resolved to hold the debate on August 8 and not on August 3 as earlier announced. A Cabinet lekgotla scheduled for the week of August 3 put paid to plans to host the debate in that week.Parties, particularly those that have submitted requests to meet the speaker were advised rather to take advantage of this process to register their standpoints, where applicable.Political parties represented in the national Assembly were requested to make their submissions by July 14. The speaker will make her decision whether the motion will be processed through a secret ballot or not before the scheduled debate, Mbete said.The DA had written to her on two occasions asking for a no confidence debate while the EFF and Cope also wrote to her asking for a secret ballot be held, she said. This follows the decision of the Constitutional Court on June 22, in which the Court stated that the speaker has the discretion to determine whether a motion of no confidence should be voted upon by a secret or open ballot, Mbete said.The DA has welcomed the scheduling of the debate. We call on Mbete to timeously apply her mind and make a decision on the secret ballot, as the Constitutional Court reaffirmed it is within her discretion, the DA said. It is the recent revelations of state capture and of how the Gupta and Zuma families colluded to loot and pillage the state that should leave individual members of Parliament with no doubt in their minds how they should vote. The end of the Zuma presidency is in sight, the DA said.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za