RAMOTSHERE Moiloa mayor Kereng Mothoagae applauded elderly people who have taken the initiative to exercise and keep their bodies in shape. She also encouraged other people, young and old, to join the fight against obesity through leading active lives. Mothoagae said this when she visited elderly people gathered at the Dithakwana A Re Rataneng Centre in Ikageleng location, Zeerust. The mayor joined the elderly for their aerobics exercise session and urged them to keep up the habit so as to enhance their health. Mothoagae’s call was in line with the anti-obesity campaign introduced by the provincial government last year. Though the main purpose of the programme is to ensure employees from various sectors and communities at large take good care of their physical well-being in order to remain healthy and productive, everyone can benefit from it. At the Dithakwana A Re Rataneng centre, elderly people gather from Monday to Friday to exercise in order to keep their bodies fit. Project facilitator Nnana Cathline Semenya expressed happiness and appreciated the visit of the mayor and municipal officials. “We feel honoured that the mayor took time to join. Moving forward it will be our pleasure if the municipality can support us to keep our elders physically fit. “The other thing is that we have a small space and our numbers are increasing every day so we will appreciate if the municipality can give us permission to use Ikageleng stadium. “We would also like to encourage the elders at home to come and join us and stop stressing about their old age challenges,” Semenya said. Mothoagae said she was excited to see old people exercising and looking physically fit. “I’m so impressed to see that, despite your age, you are taking this exercise seriously. This shows that you are the one who can determine your fate. You decided not to sit back, complaining about the effects of old age. “People out there should learn from you that age is just a number. So let us keep our bodies physically fit. I concur with Mrs Semenya that we need to reach out to the elders at their respective homes to encourage them to come and join the initiative,” Mothoagae said. She said together with councillors at the municipality, they would carry forward the good example shown by the elderly to other parts of the municipality. Premier Supra Mahumapelo made it one of his administration’s priorities to fight obesity in the province. The campaign started with the World Walk for Life event held in Mahikeng in November. Obesity leads to shortened lifespan as victims often have heart complications and other chronic diseases. Director general in the province Dr Keneilwe Sebego said the World Walk for Life is one vehicle government would use to make sure that public servants take the time to sweat and workout. “We organised the event as part of Premier Supra Mahumapelo’s vision. We want to fight obesity within our employees and encourage them to live a healthy lifestyle. “We launched this campaign provincially and it has since been rolled out to our district municipalities. “Our employees participated in various sporting events. Some participated in a fun walk, aerobics and various sporting codes. Following health policies will bring out the best out of our employees. Remember, great vision achieves a great team. So this is what we are aiming at as the fifth administration,” Sebego said. She said participating in sports helps one to stay in stay in shape and being fit and healthy teaches a person to be well-organised. “We want to avoid chronic diseases like sugar diabetes, high blood pressure and any level of stress. Our employees will be given every Wednesday to participate in various sporting events. We are going back to basics and hope this will be fruitful,” Sebego said. Those who took part in the event were happy the government has seen it fit to take officials off their chairs so that they exercise more. Neo Modise was one of those who hailed the programme saying there are other advantages besides fighting the obesity scourge. “Participating in sports improves your health in many ways. We need to take care of ourselves if we want to live longer. This gets you thinking about what to eat and how to treat your body to achieve peak performance at any level. “So we welcome the initiative and also this is part of team building. We receive some nutrition tips to help keep our bodies healthy. “As public servants we are expected to lead by example and this will enhance our performance on service delivery in turn,” Modise said. The health department’s task team programme manager, Ishmael Boboko, said they always encourage employees to take part in physical activities. However, he said that a healthy lifestyle consisted of five concepts that should be followed. “We advise our employees to exercise, eat nutritional food, always protect themselves from engaging in unprotected sex and stop smoking and drinking beer. These components will help achieve our mark and live a healthy lifestyle. We will continue with the programme as the health department,” Boboko said. ELFAS TORERAI elfast@thenewage.co.za