The ANC has been too soft and now is the right time to look into radical economic transformation, the party s Free State chairperson Ace Magashule says.Magashule, who is tipped to replace Gwede Mantashe as secretary-general at the party s December elective conference, was speaking on the sidelines of the policy conference in Johannesburg yesterday. There is no black monopoly capital so you can t even talk about it, there is white monopoly capital. Those who are benefiting since the dawn of democracy remain few and white. This is why we are saying this needs to be addressed now, Magashule said. Radical means that we have to be radical, respect the law by doing everything legally, be a humble leadership but decisive to take the country forward, he said.Meanwhile, the organisational renewal commission s report-back today is likely to put to rest the intense debate on the expansion of the ruling party s top six structure. Delegates who have been in attendance at the ANC s national policy conference since last Friday have been thrashing out a proposal for an ANC national executive committee overhaul among other key discussions at the conference.Sources with knowledge of the proposal said that today s commission report-back on organisational renewal would likely weigh in favour of the introduction of two deputy secretary-generals responsible for monitoring, evaluation and research and the other for organisational campaigns. There s likely to be unity on that one in particular. Most branches are accepting the idea. The point that we made was the weakness of the ANC to follow through on its decisions and resolutions, a source said.This comes as Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has been recommended by the ANC Youth League to occupy the position along with deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte, who stands to be re-elected. Mabalula also said in a press briefing at the weekend that the proposal was made in order to strengthen Luthuli House.Sources said there was a great deal of unhappiness among President Jacob Zuma s supporters over the tabling of a diagnostic report last week that pinned numerous challenges faced by the ANC on the shoulders of Zuma. The reason why we rejected the report is because we felt this is a policy conference. We should be only dealing with specific policy issues. Politics were at play there, a source said.On the debate raging around the existence of white monopoly capital, it was said that there was agreement on the merits of the debate. There s consensus that it does exist. The problem is that comrades were rejecting the idea not on the basis of it being right or wrong but on the basis that the argument is coming from a certain quarter. It was also said that the ANC would intensify its land reform campaign through the expropriation of land without compensation. Some leaders are sceptical but outside that there s consensus. However, some ANC leaders expressed their misgivings about the proposal. ANCWL league president Bathabile Dlamini said she was sceptical about the announcement that Mbalula would fill the position before a decision had been taken on the move. You can t have a person before we agree on a position. It must not be a position that creates space for comrades. It must be a principled decision based on an in-depth discussion, she said.Magashule said the ANC in the province seconded Dlamini on the motion. We don t need this. If you say you need a second or third deputy secretary-general of the organisation, what is then the role of the secretary-general? he asked. See pages 4, 5 and 13bonolos@thenewage.co.za