THE protracted spate of brutal, politically motivated assassinations in KwaZulu-Natal is a cause for concern for the ANC, the party s provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, said this week.In an interview with The New Age, he said that while there was no let-up in the killings, currently under the microscope by the Moerane Commission, the ANC promised to leave no stone unturned in its attempts to root out faction fighting within the province.Zikalala said the ANC would also intensify its efforts to stem the tide of killings. The issue of killings is concerning. We have elevated this to the national leadership and the national security cluster. There is now a task team investigating and the commission is still continuing, Zikalala said.The Moerane Commission, which sat for five days in Durban last week, is probing the underlying factors to the causes of political violence in the province.Ethekwini mayor Zandile Gumede and her predecessor, James Nxumalo, were expected to provide sworn testimonies on alleged wrongdoing by municipal officials and councillors during their terms of office.Former ANC Youth League (ANCYL) secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa was wounded in a drive-by shooting earlier this month when the car in which he was driving, together with two colleagues, was riddled with 15 gunshots.Zikalala took the time to share his reflections on the upcoming motion of no confidence debate in President Jacob Zuma. He called the opposition benches in Parliament out on their double standards on the invocation of the moral conscience argument. Unfortunately for those saying people must vote with their conscience, they themselves in their own organisation have clauses that say if you vote against the party, you would have effectively expelled yourself. Whether the vote is secret or not, ANC members are expected to go there and vote in line with the decision of the ANC. Zikalala lamented the suspension of the 2017 reviewed Mining Charter, arguing that the legislation would have gone a long way towards entrenching inclusive economic growth in the mining sector. I saw nothing wrong with the charter. That was a progressive initiative that needed support from all of us hence at the policy conference we supported the Mining Charter. We said it was one instrument that aimed to transform the mining sector. It should just be a transition, going to 50% owned by South Africans, he said.Zikalala said the ANC was taking no prisoners on the issue of land reform. He said that once the ANC s December elective conference was done and dusted, the leadership of the party would work towards amending the Constitution to allow for it to happen. We are glad the policy conference overwhelmingly agreed on the expropriation of land without compensation. We are saying we need to engage in that process. We expect the leadership to engage with other parties on the question of expropriation of land without compensation and amend the Constitution to allow that, he said.&#8211;BONOLO SELEBANO