It was against England last year when Temba Bavuma scored his first Test century for the Proteas.Since then, he hasn t scored a century but is keen to impress again when the Proteas start their four-match Test series against England on Thursday at Lords.Bavuma was one of the four Proteas batsmen who impressed in a first class warm-up match against England Lions, scoring 85 not out last week at New Road in Worcester.And he feels he is adjusting well to the conditions and will be ready for the first Test on Thursday. I m still trying to figure it out, to be honest, I haven t played a lot of cricket in England, Bavuma said. What I have found is the ball does swing a lot longer, whether the ball is new or older. The wickets are on the slower side compared to back home too but I m still figuring it out myself. But the guys have been here since sometime in May. One game is probably sufficient to get the Test match skill up and going again. Come the first Test we ll be ready as a unit. I like to think cricket is still cricket, it s still a red ball coming at you and we have to find ways to adapt to what comes on the day. The 27 year old said he still remembers the century he scored against England, but that his focus is on this series. That series went well for me personally, there are good memories to fall back on, but my mind is on this Test series and getting a good result for the team, Bavuma said. I know from my younger days watching games at Lord s there s something special and different about it. Everybody will be looking to be on the field on Thursday, it s a bit more special than other grounds. The Proteas were boosted with the news that bowling all-rounder Vernon Philander is available for selection.This was confirmed by Proteas bowling coach Charl Langeveldtt. Vernon has been putting in a lot of hard work, he got his workloads up this week and he will be fit and ready for Thursday, Langeveldt said. It was important that we got overs under the belt during our warm-up match. Our guys bowled well, besides the no-balls, we got two wickets off no-balls which is a concern. It is something that we will need to correct going forward. It has been a problem in the past but Kagiso Rabada has had a few weeks off so he will hit his straps on Monday and will be ready for Thursday. nevillek@thenewage.co.za