Not many 25 year olds can lay claim to owning a stake in a premium Vodka brand, but multi-award winning South African rapper Emtee sometimes referred to as Emtee Da Hustla has done just that.While many of his peers in the SA hip hop game are endorsing established brands, the Matatiele-born rapper has chosen to put his money where his mouth is, thus re-writing the hustling script as he goes about getting his money the hard and smart way.Mthembeni Ndevu, his birth name, recently announced he had invested in the South African premium vodka brand, AU Gold, took time out from his schedule for a quick chat with The New Age about his rise to the top of the SA hip hop charts as well as his family inspired lifestyle.While other rappers are endorsing Vodka brands you have personally decided to invest in one, AU Gold, how did this come about?My manager told me about it earlier this year. He s a hustler just like me and told me there s a vodka brand that wanted to work with me and explained what their vision is. Especially because it is a South African-made product. I decided to take it a step further by becoming a shareholder.Would you endorse an international Vodka brand if they approached you?I don t think I would do that. I plan to make AU Gold Vodka a worldwide go-to vodka as it is part of our long term vision. We first need to conquer the South African market before we go global.Tell us about the your current hit song Ghetto Hero that is receiving a lot of attention?Ghetto Hero is a song that is shining a light on local heroes in our communities.Especially in the slums and ghettos, in the middle of the good and bad occurring. The people who are trying their best to make ends meet given their circumstances.It also speaks to why I do what I do. This song is me doing something for them, and letting them know we all go through things. That everyone is trying as best as they can which is positive and it motivates me going into what I d like to do and where I d like to go next. What inspired the song?It was inspired by the great legends of our country who died and fought for us to have a voice. Not only them but people who are assisting as best as they can with the little that they have in their small communities and homes.This is my way of acknowledging their efforts to put bread on the table every day and always going out of their way for their loved ones.We ve just celebrated Father s Day and, as a young father, how did you celebrate the day and what does being a father mean to you?I celebrated it with my son. We went to the mall, then home to play some soccer. He made me a card, and his mum got me some pyjamas.It s almost the best thing I ve ever received from someone and it made me feel quite special. I felt really appreciated not only by my son but my girlfriend s family. It s taught me to be responsible and love him even more, and become disciplined.It s a great feeling to know that there is someone who really loves me, but cannot even speak as yet, that s the most real love I can ever have with someone.How was your relationship with you parents and your father in particular? My relationship was okay but not great.He taught me a lot despite all our differences and he gave me principles to live by.siyabongas@thenewage.co.za