The launch of The New Age added a new, progressive voice to the country’s media landscape. Since its inception and against all odds this publication has grown from strength to strength. Many of our competitors did not give us a chance of survival. This year The New Age will celebrate its seventh anniversary. Our publication’s provincial coverage has been lauded for giving a voice to communities generally silent in most media outlets. Building on its provincial strengths from day one, The New Age publishes six daily editions in KwaZulu-Natal, Western Cape, Free State, Northern Cape and North West as well as a national edition in Gauteng. In the next period, The New Age will be expanded to all provinces and undergo big changes to better serve our national readership. The New Age remains committed to telling the stories of ordinary people. Most of these achievements were made possible under the stewardship of veteran journalist and editor Moegsien Williams. As editor, Williams ensured the vision and mission of the paper was executed without fear or favour. The newsroom is one of the youngest and most transformed nationwide. Under Williams’ leadership, the emphasis on youth has become the paper’s hallmark. To ensure we have a continuous pipeline of talented journalists, The New Age Academy was also launched. It has produced outstanding reporters with many remaining while others have moved to other media houses. Against this background, we are pleased to announce Williams will retire as editor of The New Age but will continue to play a role on both the paper and ANN7. Fortunately, access to his skills and leadership will continue through his commitment to serving as consulting editor-in-chief. Ricky Naidoo has been appointed the editor of The New Age with effect from tomorrow. Naidoo has been political editor at The New Age since 2012. He has an extensive media and political career that spans the public, private, labour and civil society sectors. Kevin Humphrey, presently opinion editor, is now promoted to the position of deputy editor. In line with its policy of advancing its own people, Dudu Busani-Dube has been appointed acting news editor. She is also a pioneer in our newsroom, having started as a reporter in Johannesburg and then ran our KZN operations before returning to the Johannesburg newsroom and later becoming editor of the Free State edition of the paper. TNA REPORTER