Eskom’s top executive trio faced a barrage of questions yesterday relating to financial irregularities and shoddy deals during the presentation of the long-awaited financial results for the year ended March. They were unable to answer several critical questions. CEO Johny Dladla, who made his first public appearance since his appointment in June, said the power utility’s results were impressive and that it was not in financial distress. Eskom’s revenue increased by 7.9% to R177bn but profit tumbled 83% to R888m due to alleged corruption, from R5bn previous year while cash generated from operating activities increased by 23.1% to R46bn. Dladla said 53% of funding for the 2018 financial year had been secured. “We are going to strive to meet all expectations of shareholders and no decision will be taken without being debated by the executive committee. We will carry forward the momentum and again will seek new funding sources in a bid to reduce government bailouts,” Dladla said. Anoj Singh, chief financial officer, said a good indicator of profitability was Eskom’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of R38bn, representing an increase of 14.4%. The two-hour briefing was at times difficult for the top trio, with journalists repeatedly asking why Singh had not been suspended as were former chief executives Matshela Koko and Brian Molefe. Interim chairperson Zethembe Khoza replied that there was nothing to justify Singh’s suspension. Khoza said Eskom would pursue disciplinary action against Koko for issues relating to conflict of interest. Minister of Public Entrerprises Lynne Brown, who did not attend the briefing, issued a statement saying: “Eskom is in a better financial position than it was a year and two years ago. “I have asked the new leadership to roll up its collective sleeves and immediately address three operational matters – contract management, supply chain management and conflicts of interest – to improve the reputation of the company,” Brown said. Eskom’s latest debt is estimated to be more than R200bn. Speaking on the sidelines Paris Mashego, NUM energy sector coordinator, said yesterday he would study the results. “However, we are worried about the alleged corruption in Eskom. Answers given by the executive are not convincing. The way they dealt with the questions was like we were in a shebeen making jokes,” he said. He said Singh, who was “implicated in a number of shoddy deals” should resign and Eskom should replace the entire board. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za