While the biggest thought on the minds of everyone at the Stormers is to beat the Chiefs tomorrow in a Super Rugby quarter-final clash, they will also be out to prove that the 60 points they conceded in the same fixture last year were a fluke.Going into the playoff last year, Robbie Fleck s men were at home, hoping to make the Super Rugby semifinals.What followed was a 60-21 drubbing that Stormers captain Siya Kolisi is still struggling to forget. We are not going to talk about what happened last year (loss to Chiefs) but it should be motivation enough. It should make us want to play more, Kolisi said. I will never forget what happened last year and I don t want it to happen again. We are a totally different team now compared to last year. But it is good that we are at home. We are playing more proper rugby now. It is not just kicking and running. We want to make smarter decisions. We have a coach who gives us licence to play. A year later, the two teams meet again and given the team that Fleck has selected, the Stormers are not about to let the past dictate their future.They have since restored fullback SP Marais into the starting line-up, while flanker Rynhardt Elstadt returns to play with Kolisi on the other flank.The experienced duo of Marais and Elstadt return from injury in what are the only two changes for the clash at 5 pm tomorrow.Those changes have necessitated a shuffle of the starting team, where Dillyn Leyds moves to wing, with Seabelo Senatlha dropping to the bench.Elstadt was a late withdrawal last week due to a wrist injury but is fit to take his place on the side of the scrum for the quarterfinal, with Sikhumbuzo Notshe relegated to the bench.There is also impressive experience on the bench, with fit-again centre Juan de Jongh and giant prop Oli Kebble expected to make an impact later in the second half.A Stormers win will see two South African teams in the semifinals as the other quarterfinal taking place tomorrow at 2.30pm is a local derby between the Lions and the Sharks at Emirates Airline Park in Johannesburg.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za