 JUST heard a Zombie Zuma giving a speech on the news Massacring the beautiful English language uneducated creature even the other moron Mugabe speaks much better. This is the portraiture of President Jacob Zuma by SABC radio presenter Ravi Govender as he appraised the president s opening address at the ANC s fifth policy conference last week. In the same week, Peter Bruce, editor-atlarge at the Tiso Blackstar Group and former editor-in-chief of Business Day and Financial Mail, composed the following sweep of insults: He (President Zuma) has another useful Gupta idiot, Malusi Gigaba, at the Treasury. And if you thought Gigaba was going to be a danger to the Treasury, his deputy, Sfiso Buthelezi, is of so low an intellect he will do even more damage. South African journalism is in anguish right now if this is our daily serving of media. While Govender was swiftly dismissed by the SABC for his Zombie Zuma remark, Bruce s assault on the veracity and intellectual capability of South Africa s minister and deputy minister of finance, has seemingly been lapped up, hungrily and without any objection, in spite of its bitter and offensive aftertaste.This latest offensive strike by Bruce is just one in a noxious spew of attacks that he has directed against black business and political leaders who do not subscribe to his narrowly conservative ideological writing and who challenge the preserve of white privilege. Bruce has previously written that there are criminals in the Eskom management . In a post-democratic South Africa, veteran journalists like Bruce preserve and gratify the agenda of faithful old patrons, the heirs of apartheid and their faithful cohorts.The appointment of highly intelligent and progressive black leaders of the ilk of Gigaba, at the nucleus of the South African economy, has unnerved the masters of white business and media. To render such leaders incompetent, incapable or corrupt has become the almighty and almost singular headline formula for today s mainstream media, in what I believe is a deliberate campaign to undermine those advocating strongly for radical economic transformation.While a free and robust media is an essential watchtower in any democratic society, journalism that seeks to denigrate and degrade a progressive rank of black political and business leaders, and a narrative underlined by endemic, ingrained racism, is a deep disservice to and a grave concern for a society in pursuit of liberation. One has to question the purpose, and moral fibre of such journalism. Media, mainstream media in particular, actively stimulates the public appetite for news, information and entertainment and therefore it has a profound and inherent responsibility to serve society. Many years ago, I had the great privilege to work at Sowetan, under the expert guidance of the legendary editor-in-chief Aggrey Klaaste. The finest editor this country has ever had, in my opinion, he was widely celebrated as the father of nation building.This great newspaperman and true humanitarian taught me much about ethical, socially responsible and community-oriented journalism. This media icon placed journalism humbly at the service of society in the belief that media could and should contribute positively towards a liberated and united nation. I am disappointed that journalists have not spoken out against Bruce s blister of insults against black business and political leaders that he finds unsavoury because of his reactionary palate. I am dismayed that they have not objected to his wholesale pardoning of the grand theft of white business or his attempts, like many of his contemporaries, to sanitise Absa s complicity in collusion and apartheid corruption. Instead, it was the protest outside his home by Black First Land First (BLF) political activists, that generated a fury of froth from many journalists.The BLF movement, which has been at the fore of campaigning against Absa for their involvement in corruption, protested outside his home for his cover-ups of white corruption and his nurturing of a narrative that only black people can be corrupt. The outrage against BLF was rabid, with tales of journalists being physically attacked by members of the BLF spun across many platforms, despite the BLF dsenying this. In a complicit concord, the media is trying to demonise and diminish Andile Mngxitama and the BLF, like they did with Julius Malema and the Economic Freedom Fighters when this political party was not marching in accord with the interests of white monopoly capital. Mzilikazi wa Afrika was correct when he said: When you make a master uncomfortable, expect his dogs to attack you viciously from all sides to show their loyalty. As many whites are accustomed to do, Bruce has fully savoured the role of victim. An all-assortment of organisations has rallied in support of him the same people who united in a conspiracy of silence when black journalists from ANN7 were attacked by the EFF. But perhaps this is part of a sister campaign to estrange any journalist who works for this TV channel, in an attempt to isolate and weaken this new media player. This weekend, I was invited as a guest political commentator by ANN7 to the ANC policy conference.On several occasions over the course of the weekend, I heard many reporters refer to ANN7 journalists as fake journalists . It is a worrying and fictitious narrative aimed at delegitimising a vital young voice in the media arena. It has been a bad week for journalism. If this is the state of our media today, where journalists are master chefs of propaganda and attempt to hijack a progressive social economic development agenda, then perhaps it is time for an inquiry into media in South Africa and media ownership and influence in South Africa. It will help us connect the dots. Kim Heller is a writer and commentator&nbsp;