The no 1 jersey at Orlando Pirates is still up for grabs with neither Brighton Mhlongo, Jackson Mabokgwane or Siyabonga Mpontshane decisively staking a claim on it this past season.In fact, the season will go down as the worst for all three Pirates goalkeepers having all committed schoolboy and costly errors. The trio will be remembered for their comedy of errors with Mabokgwane and Mhlongo having conceded six goals respectively in a single match against Mamelodi Sundowns and SuperSport United,while Mpontshane let in four in the Nedbank Cup final against Matsatsantsa a Pitori last week.With that in mind, Mabokgwane , 29, believes he can still own the jersey this coming season despite being the main culprit for committing errors. I felt we had too much change in the goalkeeping department this past season, Mabokgwane said. I believe that even if the rotation wasn t too much, changes were forced by injuries there and there. Another factor was that we had too many coaches. I would play five great games and then get a bad one and I believe that to be consistent, playing four or five games for Pirates is not good enough. I think I m ready to take possession of the No 1 jersey . He played 13 matches this past season and conceded 16 goals while he kept a clean sheet six times in all competitions. Mabokgwane played for Sundowns, Bidvest Wits, and Mpumalanga Black Aces in the past. I would say it was a learning curve at Pirates, the level is much higher, Mabokgwane said. What s important for me is to learn from the first season and obviously grow from there. I felt the performance from my side was good and when it was bad it was terrible. I just need to be consistent. I made a couple of errors sometimes, so for me it is to learn from those mistakes and eliminate them, but otherwise the performances were mostly good in the games I played. At a big team like Pirates, there is no room for mistakes. I have been in small teams for some time where there so heavy pressure and you can make a mistake and it s forgotten. But here at Pirates you need to make sure that you don t make those kinds of mistakes. You have to be always on top of your game. Pirates have announced the signing of midfielder Thamsanqa Sangweni from Chippa United on a two-year deal.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za