Gavin Hunt believes Bidvest Wits have the toughest fixtures in the title run-in compared to rivals Mamelodi Sundowns and Cape Town City.Wits returned to the summit of the Absa Premiership following a 1-0 victory over Sundowns, courtesy of Ben Motshwari s first half header, on Sunday. Wits and second-placed Sundowns still have five matches to play before the conclusion of season while City have four remaining. In their five matches, Wits still have to face both Soweto giants, starting with Orlando Pirates at home today.They will end the season with an away clash against Kaizer Chiefs. The other three fixtures see them pitted against Maritzburg United and Polokwane City who are both aiming for a top eight finish, while Free State Stars are desperate to avoid the dreaded drop. We have the hardest run-in. Out of Cape Town City and Sundowns, I can t see them losing any of their other games. We still have to play Pirates and Chiefs, Hunt said.For Sundowns, the toughest match looks to be Pirates, which is set for Sunday. The Brazilians also have Maritzburg United, Baroka FC and Highlands Park on their way to defending the Premiership title. The Capetonians, who were humbled 1-0 by Maritzburg United, have a tough fixture against SuperSport next week. Eric Tinkler s side next play Free State Stars at home tomorrow and still have Golden Arrows and Polokwane City on their to-do list.Hunt is excited about returning to the PSL summit and their victory over Sundowns. It s another three points, we have five games to play, it s still a long way to go. We have a hell of a programme as we are playing Pirates today and we have to play again on Sunday, Hunt said. It going to be tough, we have been losing players in one or two games. We had all this Champions League action, travelling all over the place, so our squad is taking the strain. We needed a guy like Daine Klate for a game like Pirates but we still have Gabadinho Mhango and Phakamani Mahlambi who haven t played in the last three or two games. Klate received a red card in their last match against Sundowns and Granwald Scott is serving a suspension for receiving five yellow cards.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za