Pupils of Witbank Primary School in the Khai-Ma municipality have expressed gratitude and happiness to have received a donation of mobile classrooms.The donation was presented by the Abengoa Solar South Africa project to Premier Sylvia Lucas last week. Lucas officially opened the school on Friday and urged parents and pupils to look after the infrastructure as it would go a long way to assist others in the community. It has always been our historical goal to bring about a better life for our people and so education will always remain high among our goals, she said.Lucas applauded the management of Abengoa who saw fit to invest in education through constructing the school.The school was previously housed in a building of the NG Reformation Church and was rented by the department of education. The new school has been constructed by Abengoa Solar and caters for 45 Witbank pupils. Almost every child in this beautiful country of ours now has access to complete primary school education that was previously not available. Our aim is to provide pupils with access to schools equipped with all amenities such as libraries, laboratories and sporting facilities, she said.Lucas said partnership such as the one they had with Abengoa would go a long way in ensuring that access to quality public education was a priority for the provincial government. We are grateful that you have not only prioritised your business interests but you have joined hands with us to help shape the future for our leaders of tomorrow, she said.Lucas also called on other private sectors to come to the table with a key focus of changing the lives of ordinary people in rural communities. I want to also express our gratitude once more to Abengoa for this valuable contribution that will help us prepare our pupils to also one day become innovative and critical thinkers, who will be in a position to develop and grow this province further, she said.The representative for Abengoa Solar South Africa, Julian Lopez Garrido, said they valued the relationship they had with the province and specifically the Khai-Ma municipality therefore they would continue to invest in projects benefiting those communities.Recently, the provincial department of education said it was emphasising early childhood development because it was the bedrock of the education system.Spokesperson Geoffrey van der Merwe said a total of 19430 Grade R pupils were expected to enter the formal basic education system throughout the province come January.He said pupils admissions had begun in earnest and the main focus would be on pre-Grade R and Grade R in primary schools and Grade 8 for high schools respectively. The department also raised a concern about parents who do not take their children to early childhood schooling as some aspects that contribute negatively on the results of the province. The department views the delay in taking children into early learning as bearing negative and costly consequences at a later stage. Cognitive and overall development before schooling can often have long-lasting and costly consequences for children, families and society, Van der Merwe said.The department has made significant strides in making sure the ECD receive an increased budget. We will see a staggering R122m in this financial year as the number of Grade R pupils is also anticipated to increase, he said.Van der Merwe said more than 200 teachers were expected to complete their studies at the University of North West with a focus on boosting the provincial manpower. Of the 760 practitioners in the system, 95% of them have an entry-level ECD qualification. TIISETSO MANOKOtiisetsom@thenewage.co.za