A research study focused on the role of mining hospitals offering autopsies to families of deceased miners has been undertaken by a lecturer in the department of biomedical technology at the University of Johannesburg. Julian Mthombeni says autopsies are vital for relatives claiming compensation for occupational diseases among miners. “South African miners face an epidemic of occupational lung diseases. Despite a plethora of research on the mining industry, research impact – including disease surveillance – on policy implementation and occupational health systems performance lags.” The research study was part of Mthombeni’s dissertation for her masters degree in public health. Said Mthombeni: “In South Africa, the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act autopsies are declining especially among retired mine workers. Insufficient knowledge of legalities has been postulated as one of the causes of under-utilisation. “Compensation is a fundamental social right that should guarantee a life of human dignity for the diseased or injured worker and his family. “We described and compared processes for obtaining consent and the experiences and perceptions of personnel involved in these processes in selected South African mines and identified possible impediments, some common to other low- and middle-income countries. “That will hopefully inform interventions,” Mthombeni said. Her research involves documenting how consent processes can be improved for autopsies on deceased miners. “We want to make miners, ex-miners, their families and communities aware of the rights of miners and exminers to have their lungs and hearts submitted for examination after they die. “These examinations are done to determine the presence of compensable lung diseases which may occur as a result of working on the mines.” The law says anyone who has been exposed to risk while working on the mines or classified works, has the right to have his or her lungs and heart examined after death, irrespective of the cause of death. “It is the duty of the last doctor who attends to the deceased person to arrange for the removal of the lungs and heart. “For various reasons, the number of autopsies performed continues to fall, despite the potential benefits of the procedure for families and medical science. Some of the reasons for the decline include distrust in the compensation system, fear of mutilating the body, maintaining the body in the best condition possible, lack of knowledge, belief that the examination during an autopsy inflicts further suffering to the body, lack of rapport with the deceased’s family, lack of consensus among family members, concern about funeral delays, dying at home as opposed to hospital, or preference to preserve the dignity of the deceased over knowing the cause of death,” Mthombeni said. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za