It s amazing how much things can change in a year and Bidvest Wits midfield maestro Thabang Monare can attest to that. This time last season, Monare was fighting a futile battle to keep Jomo Cosmos in the PSL.But now, a year later, the 27 year old has won the league, following a splendid season with the Clever Boys. Monare also played a pivotal role in helping the Students win the MTN 8 title early in the season when they defeated league title rivals Mamelodi Sundowns in the final. Just after realising he had won the PSL title in his second season in the top tier, the former Ezenkosi captain was short of words to explain his happiness. It s just so amazing how things work in life, looking at where I come from, I m just over the moon, Monare said. It s a very big moment for me whereby I don t even have words to explain the joy I have. To think of it, last season at this time I was fighting against relegation and this year I have won the league. This has taught me if you keep on working and never give up in life, your chances of having a successful career are quite high. Though the man from Embalenhle in Mpumalanga is happy about his recent achievements, he still feels bad that he couldn t help Cosmos remain in the big time. Failing to help a team avoid relegation is a horrible feeling. Though I have just won the league my name is still there as part of the team that got relegated. No one wants to get relegated, we worked our socks off but it just didn t work out. When Monare joined Wits, winning the league and other trophies were not top of his list of concerns. The former University of Pretoria and FC AK midfielder didn t even think he would be given a chance to play so soon, let alone being a regular name on the sheet. To be honest, I had a lot on my mind when I signed for Wits. First it was am I going to play? Because looking at the team that they had before I came, they were so amazing, classy players, Monare said. I was worried about that. And as time went on, you are worried about winning the next game, gelling with the team, but luckily we have players with a lot of experience so they helped me gel and there was coach Gavin Hunt. Monare will receive his medal together with teammates after their game against Kaizer Chiefs at the FNB Stadium on Saturday.-SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za