The funeral industry contributed about R600m to the South African economy in 2015. With a projected growth estimated at 12% a year, despite decreases in the death rate, the industry should be looked at as a driver of SMME development, transformation and financial inclusion. This was said at the recent annual conference of the SA Funeral Practitioners Association (Safpa) in East London where the organisation’s president, Yongama Quma, said their members conduct 60 000 to 70 000 funerals across the country every year. Thembisa Mapukata, general manager for the foundation market segment at Old Mutual, says empowering small business owners remains fundamental to economic transformation and financial inclusion, and is thus a foremost priority in their partnership with Safpa. Hosted under the theme Breaking Barriers, the conference was aimed at empowering funeral practitioners nationally and to provide a platform to share best practice, promote SMME growth and drive credibility in the industry. “We are working with Safpa to ensure their members prioritise compliance, remain competitive by growing their businesses and continue driving employment in communities while expanding access to financial services at grassroots level,” Mapukata said. She spoke about how the funeral industry’s informal operations and self-regulation resulted in the credibility of the industry remaining inconsistent. “Historically, financial institutions focused solely on affluent and mass markets while the foundation market relied on one another to save, invest, borrow and even bury their loved ones. “Their lack of resources made people realise they needed to come together in communities, churches and families. This evolved into stokvels and informal burial societies, among others,” she said. “As a responsible business we are dedicated to ensuring we support the funeral industry as a major driver of SMME development, transformation and financial inclusion in South Africa.” Quma said: “As we are only one of many funeral associations operating in South Africa, our numbers clearly highlight the potential of this industry to grow and drive employment. “We value the role played by Old Mutual in ensuring more than 300 funeral parlours were registered as Financial Service Providers (FSPs) from last year, in compliance with the regulatory requirements for any parlour that collects premiums and makes a profit.” -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za