A photographic exhibition detailing the numerous wars that Xhosa people were subjected to between 1779 and 1879 in their fight against Afrikaner and British colonial forces is taking place at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University.The exhibition was officially opened on Saturday by the National Heritage Council s CEO, Sonwabile Mancotywa, who said the history of the wars had largely been documented from the perspective of the colonisers. The issues of landlessness, poverty and underdevelopment that continue to plague the Eastern Cape cannot be understood fully without reference to the wars of dispossession and resistance that played out in the province in the eighteenth and nineteenth century, he said.Photographer Cedric Nunn has titled his exhibition Unsettled: 100 Years of War, which has been described as quiet yet complex. Nunn said as people viewed the photographs, which document the land and areas where these struggles took place, they should be mindful of the long shadow the events depicted still cast over South Africa. Let us all learn from our divided and conflict-ridden history and seek inspiration to address the challenges we face today, he said.Nunn s aim is to instigate social change and highlight lesser-seen aspects of society through his photography after he became aware of a notable gap in the telling of South African history. He believes that little has been done to commemorate these acts of colonial aggression and Xhosa resistance, and decided to document the land where these struggles took place. We seem to be suffering from selective amnesia or organised forgetting in documenting the history of the country. There is only one other 100-year war in history. How on earth can it be that we cannot understand and value this extraordinary period of time? The exhibition forms part of a series of projects in celebration of Africa Week.It is a collaborative effort of the university s art gallery and the Department of Arts, Culture and Heritage and the Centre for the Advancement of NonRacialism and Democracy. NMMU says the images transform this period of South African history into a visually provocative narrative and give meaning to the critical narrative of the landscape and its inhabitants. How can one confront the burning issues of the land question without reference to those wars? But more than that, the wars had a broader national and even international significance in that. They played a crucial role in the development of racial attitudes and notions of white supremacy that still challenge us today, Mancotywa said, adding that South Africa was at a crossroad. In the same way that liberation fighters, struggling to overthrow apartheid, found inspiration in the deeds of their forefathers in resisting the advance of colonialism, we need to find the courage and inspiration to confront the problems we face as a country today, he said.The exhibition will run at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University Art Gallery on Bird Street until 15 June.-TNA REPORTERprovinces@thenewage.co.za