The slow pace in resolving hate crimes has been blamed for the rise in brutal killings targeting the homosexual and lesbian communities.OUT LGBTI, an organisation representing lesbians, gays, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people claims that of 26 recorded attacks in the past 12 months only one case has been resolved.Department of Justice spokesperson Mthunzi Mhaga yesterday confirmed the number was even higher at 33 reported cases.He was, however, quick to add that 18 cases were still under investigation with no arrests and 15 cases were on the court roll with the alleged perpetrators having been arrested.The families and OUT LGBTI have lamented crimes on the LGBTI community as being less acknowledged despite victims being raped and killed.Among them is the Nkosi family from Vosloorus in Ekurhuleni, whose 22-year-old daughter Khosi Nkosi was brutally raped and murdered in December. Five month later, the perpetrators are still at large.Nkosi s brother Nathi, said the family had lost hope in the criminal justice system. I ve gone to the police four times and so far they haven t done anything. My mother is deeply affected by the murder and she is often sick, Nathi Nkosi said.This family are among many others seeking justice for murdered loved ones.Activists have also expressed outrage at the number of unresolved cases while bodies continue to pile up. They plan to picket in Hatfield, Pretoria on Tuesday demanding an end to LGBTI attacks.Following the much publicised brutal stoning to death and rape of Lerato Moloi last week, a well known lesbian in Soweto, it was also reported that a gay man was killed in Free State.The body of Stephen Nketsi, 26, was found dumped in a hole in Botshabelo on Thursday and the killers are still at large.OUT campaign manager Lerato Phalakatshela said the unresolved hate crime cases highlighted challenges faced by LGBTI victims in the criminal justice system.He accused the government s national task team on gender and sexual orientation-based violence against LGBTI persons and its rapid response team of not delivering. While we have worked with the Department of Justice alongside its task team and rapid response team (RRT) for a number of years, we have now been forced to believe that they are failing us, Phalakatshela said.The RRT was tasked to monitor and fast track pending and reported LGBTI related cases. Of updates requested from the RRT in September 2016 concerning 22 outstanding cases, responses to just six of the cases have been returned. This is inadequate. Meetings of the teams are often delayed or do not take place and there is still no functioning RRT in Gauteng. Mhaga, however, said the accusations were unfair and insisted the department was doing all it could to bring the perpetrators to book. OUT did not raise these issues at the recent NTT meeting on May 16. The NTT continues its efforts to combat and prevent continued discrimination experienced by the LGBTI community, Mhaga said.He said cases against vulnerable groups, including LGBTI, continued to be prioritised.KUTULLO MADISHA, CALLYN MARKS AND THABISO MACHAKA