Vitoria de Guimaraes are likely to find it increasingly difficult to resist overtures from leading Portuguese side Benfica for star midfielder Bongani Zungu in the coming weeks.The ever-improving Zungu scored for Guimaraes as they went down 2-1 to Benfica in the Taca de Portugal Cup final on Sunday, enhancing his growing reputation in the Primeira Liga side. He aced an unofficial audition for Benfica with yet another stellar performance for The Conquerors in a cup final. Zungu has a year left on his contract and could opt to stay with Guimaraes, with the prospect of Uefa Europa League football after the club finished the season in fourth to earn a spot in the continental tournament.There has been speculation that the final may have been his last game for Vitoria with Benfica, a Portuguese club steeped in great history, said to be one of the teams interested in his services in European leagues. The temptation to join a bigger side would be too much to resist for a player eager to make a name for himself in Europe. The prospect of playing against Europe s elite sides Barcelona, Juventus, Chelsea and Real Madrid in the Uefa Champions League next season could tilt the scales were it to come down to a decision.The 24 year old pulled one back for Guimaraes as he headed in midway through the second half against Benfica, but the goal wasn t enough to avoid the disappointment of losing a cup final. For Zungu, though, the goal would have proved massive as he completed his return to form. It was only in December that Zungu fought his way back into the team, having battled a recurring knee injury and form to finally win a regular place in the Guimaraes.Zungu is set to return home for national team duty this week, having been recalled to the Bafana Bafana squad. He will join the camp which starts this weekend and will be expected to play against Nigeria in the Africa Nations Cup qualifier on June 10. I m so happy to be back with Bafana, it means a lot for my career. I m looking forward to the challenge and I m very happy about the squad. There s too much quality in there, it s exciting, Zungu was quoted as saying.Meanwhile, Tokelo Rantie celebrated his return to international football with an equaliser for Genclerbirligi as they eventually dispatched Bursaspor 2-1 also on Sunday.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za