AN urgent special central executive committee (CEC) meeting of Cosatu next week will decide on whether to invite President Jacob Zuma to its central committee (CC) meeting later this month.Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said yesterday that while the trade union federation was gearing up for its mid-term policy meeting at the end of the month, its CEC meeting would reflect on the scenes of chaos that marred its May Day rallies in Bloemfontein, Durban and Polokwane, as well as the thorny issue of inviting President Zuma to the CC. We called the special CEC to resolve those issues. Workers will give us a mandate. We have also received those reports and they will be tabled in the CEC, he said.Pamla s comments come against the background of tensions within the ANC-led tripartite alliance spilling over at Cosatu s main Workers Day rally in Bloemfontein. Zuma was repeatedly booed and heckled before he could even deliver the ANC s message of support to workers.However, a Cosatu union leader who spoke on condition of anonymity told The New Age that Cosatu s CEC should be bold enough to call a spade a spade and revoke Zuma s invitation to its CC meeting. We can see how it tampers with the unity of workers. The discussion should emanate from what happened at the rally. If we can say because of the tensions, please ANC, you know where we stand,give us another top leader, that would be the correct thing to do. Pamla earlier in a statement called the ANC out over its double standards in criticising Cosatu for openly endorsing deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the reins of the ANC while turning a blind eye to its youth league s punting former African Union chairperson (AU) Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma for party president. While it is easy and almost fashionable for the ANC to chastise and blame Cosatu for publicly pronouncing its support for deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over from president Jacob Zuma, it is noticeable that the same ANC lack the appetite to reprimand its own structures that are openly campaigning in support of Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma. It is these double standards and factionalised reasoning that is testing the patience of the workers and ultimately eroding the discipline and the comradeship that has united the alliance for decades. Pamla also said it was unfair for some ANC provincial structures to lay the blame for the May Day mayhem squarely at the door of Cosatu. We have also noted the unfortunate and unhelpful statement attributed to some ANC comrades apportioning the blame for what happened on May Day to Cosatu s decision to openly endorse Cyril Ramaphosa as its candidate for the ANC presidency, he said.In the aftermath of the Workers Day fiasco, ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa attributed Zuma s hostile reception to the ructions over its December elective conference playing themselves out. When we took the decision to deploy him, we anticipated that such restlessness could arise but the ANC had to deliver a message and we couldn t say that its leadership can t attend. The consequence of what happened is what we advised against, that the succession debate can t happen outside the formal structures of the ANC as it undermines the protocols of the party. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za