The roots of education may have been somewhat bitter for Musawenkosi Saurombe, but the fruits are certainly sweet.At only 23, Saurombe is one of the youngest PhD holders in Africa and is now looking to become a young professor.Despite the extraordinary achievement, Saurombe said, she is only an ordinary young lady still trying to chart her success in life. At the end of the day I am still a human being. A young person like any other. I still face a lot of challenges, she said.Saurombe received her PhD in industrial psychology at the North West University (NWU) in April this year. Her thesis focused on the management perspectives on a talent value proposition for academic staff in a South African higher education institution. Her graduation ceremony was attended by the former president of Botswana Dr Keitumile Masire and the ambassador of Zimbabwe to Botswana.She started her university career with a BCom at the age of 16 which she completed at 19. She received her honours and masters degrees with distinctions. The masters programme ordinarily takes about two years, but Saurombe completed hers in a year and went on to do her PhD, which she did in a year and a half. Her research thesis had no corrections or amendments.In December 2011 she received an invitation from the directors of the Pacific Institute Botswana whose global headquarters are in America, to participate in a programme called Investment in Excellence, aimed at accentuating people self-mastery and discovery of purpose and strengths. This was a game changer for me and my average went up to 86% for my final year modules. From then on I obtained overall distinctions (cum laude) also for my honours and masters, she said.She is a post-doctoral fellow at the NWU s campus in Mahikeng, and is responsible for the teaching and supervision of postgraduate students.Born in Zimbabwe, and raised in Botswana, Saurombe started Grade 1 at the age of five at Phakalane English Medium Primary School in Gaborone, Botswana.She later changed schools after completing second grade. At her new school, the teachers told her parents that she should be promoted as she was too advanced for her age group.She then did grades 3 and 4 in one year. She started Grade 8 when she was 11 and finished high school at 15 after skipping the 10th grade.Her journey has not always been smooth sailing, though. At one point, she said, she faced possible exclusion due to financial constraints. I almost had to drop out in my final year because of no money. It has been a roller-coaster ride, she said.Her father s car had to be sold to finance her studies when she almost had to de-register her course. It was not even planned. Some Egyptian guys came to our house, they were selling cutlery and stuff. My dad said he did not have any money to buy anything. They then said they saw a car outside and if it was for sale. It was not, she said. My dad thought about it and asked how much they were offering and it was the exactly the amount I needed for university and for registration. It was exactly what I needed. That was an answered prayer for me because otherwise I would not have finished my course. This did not deter her at all. If anything, it made her even hungrier for education and success. Saurombe attributes this to her strong sense of spirituality and patience that kept her going through the many challenges she faced. The difference between winning and losing is usually your level of perseverance, she said.She said that the problem with young people sometimes was that they were too quick to give up whenever things did not go their way.Choosing her study field after Grade 12 was an interesting process, she said, because she was indecisive on the matter. Her first two choices when applying at university were accounting and economics. Those were actually chosen for me by my parents. I thought I wanted to be a medical doctor but I changed my mind at a later stage, after the results came out. I could not decide so my parents advised me to do accounting and economics based on marketability, she said. For my third choice, I thought I should just put something down. I had done a personality test at school during career day and I realised that I am generally a people s person. I felt that something like labour relations could be more in line with my personality. So I just put it down, very uncertainly. As fate would have it, her application landed in the wrong campus and she had to resubmit it. However, her first two options were found to be already full and she had to settle for the third one. I thought I was settling but it actually turned out to be what I really love. I would say the personality test was quite accurate, Saurombe said.Saurombe said she only intended to end her studies at masters level and do the rest much later in life. However, she said, her uncle challenged her, saying she could be the youngest person if she went on to do her PhD immediately after her masters. I thought, okay, challenge accepted. I went for it and it actually happened, she said.The bubbly doctor in industrial psychology said people often think of her as stuck up, even though she is actually more outgoing than most people realise. People ask whether I am always carrying a book? Am I a nerd? Do I have fun? But half of them do not even realise that they are more serious than I am, she said.Describing herself as having multiple personalities Saurombe said different people knew different versions of her. I do not know whether it is because I did not get to play too much but my parents think I am really playful. When people meet me in more serious settings, like the academic setting, they think I am very serious, but my closer friends know that I can be a little crazy. Education is not her only passion. Saurombe also has a love affair with music. She is a pianist and also loves singing and dancing.Her second favourite activity, after learning, is watching movies. We do not have a cinema in Mahikeng so I really get excited when I am home in Gaborone and I get to watch something, especially animation, I really love that, she said. I do not do the more prevalent activities like clubbing. That is not really fun for me. But I love going to theme parks. Saurombe said she was overwhelmed by God s grace in her life and that she was glad she could use her story to inspire other young people and make some sort of difference in their lives. I enjoy the positive feedback. A lot of people actually want to know how this came about and I am able to share it. Some people who may be discouraged are able to draw inspiration from me. That is more gratifying than the achievement itself because I am able to positively influence somebody else s actions or their perceptions towards their own lives, she said.Saurombe is a member of the Golden Key International Honour Society executive committee (NWU Mafikeng chapter) and set to take the global grandstand as a delegate representing the NWU at Golden Key s 40th birthday celebration in Las Vegas, Nevada.