President Jacob Zuma insists that he is not opposed to establishing a judicial Commission of Inquiry to look deeper into the allegations contained in “the State of Capture” report. ” The President is of the view that some of the remedial actions directed by the Public Protector are irregular, unlawful and unconstitutional,” ” Legal advice obtained pointed at the fact that the remedial action on the appointment of a Commission of Inquiry undermines the separation of powers doctrine. The Constitution gives the power to appoint a commission of inquiry to the President, which she/he must exercise when the President holds a view that a matter of public concern requires such a process,” said Presidency spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga. Last week it was anounced that Zuma’s review of the state capture report will take place from 24-26 October 2017. The President announced last year in November that he intended to take former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report on judicial review. Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has previously filed a notice to challenge Zuma’s application however it currently is not clear whether she will continue to oppose it or not. On Thursday Ngqulunga reiterated that the remedial action prescribed by Madonsela, specifically the establishment of a judicial commission and the instruction directing how it should be formed is the basis of the president’s review. ” This contravenes section 84(2) (f) of the Constitution which leaves it open for the President to choose what type of a commission of inquiry should be established, whether it should be a judicial commission of inquiry or any other commission. The remedial action has made that choice for the President, which is impermissible in law,” ” Furthermore, section 84(2) (f) of the Constitution leaves it to the President to determine what particular matter of public concern should trigger the exercise of the power to institute a commission of inquiry. The former Public Protector also decided this matter for the President through her remedial action. This, too, renders the remedial action unconstitutional and invalid,”said Ngqulunga. -TNA Reporter