Today marks the fifth day of the service delivery protest that has shaken Johannesburg s Region G and surrounding areas, preventing thousands of pupils from going to school.On Monday, the protest started at Eldorado Park, organised by the Greater Eldorado Park Business Forum in a bid to pass a message to the government that they wanted houses and improved service delivery. As the week went by, the protest spread to other areas giving criminals an opportunity to loot shops.School children in Eldorado Park, Ennerdale, Kliptown, Klipspruit, Lawley, Finetown, Lenasia now need a catch-up plan after missing classes.Tamia Wilshire, 17, a matriculant pupil said she was worried about missing out on valuable study time at school. It s difficult not to stress because our June exams are right around the corner and we lost so much time of learning. These protests really have a negative impact especially on the matriculants that have all this pressure to do well. School principal of Elridge Primary School, Rafika Cloete said as principals of Eldorado Park they were under immense pressure. We need to ensure that our pupils are safe and that when they return to school we have procedures in place to help them catch up with their work, Cloete said.Lancea Vale secondary principal Phillips whose school was already in the spotlight after getting the highest matriculant pass rate said they would have to implement extra classes. Unfortunately we have to wait for the protest to be 100% over before we presume as usual, Phillips said.The Gauteng department of education confirmed yesterday that there would be a catch-up plan for all affected schools. When things go back to normal, all affected schools will have to be part of a plan which is likely to take place on weekends until all work is covered, GDE spokesperson Oupa Bodibe said.School children some wearing their uniforms have been seen taking part in protests while others got involved in looting.Yesterday some parents had to form a human-chain preventing a handful of protesters from gaining entry at mid-Ennerdale Primary School. The department has no mandate to tell pupils not to come to school. Parents should exercise caution, as the department, we are ready to continue teaching our pupils, Bodibe said.JMPD and SAPS officers discovered goods valued at about R500000 which were looted from factories in the Nancefield Industrial Area on Tuesday night. Since Monday, about 73 people have been arrested for public violence, possession of stolen property, possession of unlicensed firearm and theft. The situation is calm, more officers have been deployed, Lt Col Lungelo Dlamini said.The MEC for Gauteng cooperative governance and traditional affairs and human settlements, Paul Mashatile, will today visit Ennerdale and Eldorado Park south of Johannesburg to meet with the respective community s task teams.ntombin@thenewage.co.za