Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini s adherence to the trade federation s central executive committee (CEC) decision to endorse Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the ANC presidency has been called into question.South African Democratic Teachers Union KwaZulu-Natal provincial secretary Nomarussia Caluza yesterday confronted Dlamini in full view of delegates attending a meeting of Cosatu s CEC in Irene, outside Pretoria, saying Dlamini s perceived loyalty to President Jacob Zuma undermined his support towards Cosatu s push for Ramaphosa to take over the reins of the ANC.She lamented Dlamini s lack of emphasis on the matter in his opening address at the meeting. This decision of Cosatu was supposed to be emphasised when the president (Dlamini) was presenting the political overview on behalf of the CEC. This decision cannot come as an announcement from the shop stewards of the federation, Caluza said.This comes as Dlamini, offered an apology to Cosatu s CEC last week for attending Zuma s 75th birthday celebration in April, a week after Cosatu called on Zuma to step down following his Cabinet reshuffle. Caluza had more words to spare for Dlamini. She said Dlamini should demonstrate that he was behind Cosatu s call for Ramaphosa to lead the ANC after the ruling party s December elective conference. The call from the president saying that we must unite, the president must practically himself unite us around the decision of Cosatu. It is our view that the deputy president of the ANC must be the president of the country. We are not ashamed of that decision. You (Dlamini) must pronounce firmly and strongly so that members and affiliates of Cosatu are not confused on the ground. Caluza said Dlamini should prove that the apology he made to Cosatu s CEC was sincere. In the CEC there was an apology, we want to see if the apology was genuine because members will be confused, Caluza said.Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali, who later presented a secretariat report, charged that there was a long standing tradition in the ANC that its deputy president succeeds the president once his or her term of office ends. Since 1994, all deputy presidents have become presidents. Why put him there if you do not trust him?, Ntshalintshali said. We must talk to the ANC, things have to change and we are running out of time. The ANC must solve this succession debate. Ntshalintshali also questioned the ANC s policy proposal on radical economic transformation, saying its aims and objectives were opaque. If it is true that you want radical economic transformation, why after 20 years? We may not know what it is but we know what it s not. You must not make the state weak and give money to individuals. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za