Women deserve to take part on an equal footing to men on issues of leadership, the ANC national executive committee (NEC) subcommittee on social transformation said yesterday.Briefing journalists on the ANC s policy discussion document on social transformation in Johannesburg, committee member and Minister of Women in the Presidency, Susan Shabangu, said while gender balance in leadership positions in the ANC was broader than the role of president , the ANC would not shy away from the discussion of achieving gender equality in the leadership of the party. In the ANC that s the debate, we are not shying away from and we will compete with men. It s about performance and it s about women who are capable, and I must say in the ANC specifically, we have lots of women who are capable. Shabangu s comments come against the background of the ANC s leagues having revived the female president debate.The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) and ANC Women s League (ANCWL) have expressed their desire for the ANC to be led by a women after the party s December elective conference.However, Shabangu said equally that having a single woman in a key position would not end all forms of gender inequality. The issue of equality is all centered around the president. We don t look at the issue of the empowerment of women across the board, and it distorts our discussion. And it distorts the empowerment of women playing a key role in society if its confined to the president. There are women that are involved at various levels, very competent so I don t think we should narrow the debate around the empowerment of women just around the issue of the president. We have many women who are capable. There are many women in the private sector who are in those positions because of their capability. Committee chairperson Lindiwe Sisulu, making reference to the country s social transformation project, said much rested on the shoulders of the government and broader society to contribute to nation building. We ve been cohabiting with each other without integrating. We do have problems, we are a product of our society, we are a product of our times. It does not mean that what we want for our country and our people is something that we ourselves have already. So unfortunately we still have divisions in our society. Committee member Vusithemba Ndima said racism still remained an obstacle to achieving a non-racial society. Whenever we are tackling issues of race and racism, we are always making it a point that it is understood that those are not natural phenomena but these are social and cultural and political constructs. Therefore every time we have discussions around this, we ensure that we debunk the myths of white supremacy that has been perpetuated over centuries. Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za