Quaifying for every major tournament should be the ambition of a South African national team coach, Stuart Baxter has said. Some would argue that mere qualification for tournaments is no longer enough in the eyes of the football public, in light of yet another depressing World Cup showing, this time by the national U-20 side in South Korea.But Baxter does not want to be the Bafana Bafana coach from whom nothing can be expected. The Brit began his new job two weeks ago, though he is not yet fully hands-on as he still has to complete the season with PSL side SuperSport United. In juggling between two jobs, Baxter has to prepare Bafana for the crunch 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier against Nigeria and also keep an eye on United ahead of the Nedbank Cup final against Orlando Pirates next month. I prefer the pressure of people expecting. Being realistic but expecting, Baxter said. We should be expecting to qualify for major tournaments. I can t say which between the Afcon qualifier and the 2018 World Cup will be easy. But we are on our way. Baxter admitted he is facing a mammoth task going back to the jungle that is continental football, a place he is familiar with from his past association with Bafana.South Africa will have to win one of their two matches against Nigeria and also chalk up points from the other group fixtures to gain passage to the finals in Cameroon. The key thing in Africa is to be able to change and adapt, Baxter said. You go to Libya and you find the pitch terrible. You can t play the ball around at the back, but have to go more direct. If you do have what do we do if in your back pocket then I think that s a big bonus. Leaving nothing to chance has never been Baxter s way of doing things. He has already sent a spy to gather intelligence on the Super Eagles, who are camping in France.Having failed to qualify for the last two Afcon finals, Nigeria, the 2013 champions, will move mountains to qualify for the 2019 edition and that could only mean Baxter will face a far bigger challenge than a mere bad blood fight. I ve got the Manchester United scout who s helping us in Paris. Nigeria are playing Corsica at the Ajaccio Stadium in Corsica and against Togo in Paris and they re being watched there. I ve got reports and the coach s background. So (when) we come to the event, we ll be well prepared. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za