After a year of consultation with stakeholders within and outside the government, the Mining Charter is ready to be gazetted, Mineral Affairs Minister Mosebenzi Zwane said.He said: It will empower the people of South Africa, that we are sure of. The mining sector will be proud because some of the issues they ve raised, like once empowered, always empowered, were dealt with. We ve also taken to heart the concerns of all stakeholders. Zwane, however, would not disclose a date when this would be done, adding that different stakeholders have given their views. We said, Let s allow the final touch-ups . The charter will be gazetted in a week s time, Zwane said. It is going to be one of the revolutionary tools, Zwane told a media briefing before he presented his budget vote in the National Assembly yesterday.Zwane would not speak more about his views of the concept once empowered, always empowered, adding that this principle would be covered in the notice that would soon be published in the Government Gazette.The Mining Charter, he said, was balanced with the feelings of the investors because South Africa had a responsible government. We considered their views up to last Friday. We are still talking to local and international investors. Zwane said that between 85% and 90% of the Mining Charter had found common ground. The remaining 10% would also include other views because the government was not dictating to people how it thought they should be treated. We are responsible. We do not hide anything. That is why we ve said a month or two would not kill us. Let s hear what people wanted to say, he said.Zwane said the 2017-18 budget was a continuation of the work done at the beginning of the current administration.Last year, the ministry said its priorities were enhancing legislative and policy certainty, mine health and safety and meaningful socioeconomic transformation. While we have some way to go, we believe we have made significant strides in this regard, Zwane said.In 2016, he said, the mining industry recorded the lowest ever fatalities, which, at 73, was lower than the figure of 77 in 2015. We are seeing more companies operating for more than one year without a fatality. In 2016, 1793 mines operated for more than a year without any fatalities. All this, he said, was due to the increased focus on health and safety in the past 20 months. We are concerned that we are not yet seeing a significant reduction in the number of fatalities in 2017. Zwane pledged to continue working with organised labour, mining companies and communities to work together to create and maintain stability in the industry.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za