A decision by delegates attending Cosatu s central committee (CC) meeting to endorse Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to address its mid-term policy review today underscores the political ructions over the ANC s December elective conference playing out in the open.Cosatu deputy general secretary Solly Phetoe yesterday ratified a decision by delegates to accept Ramaphosa as its choice replacement for President Jacob Zuma, who was given the cold shoulder by Cosatu, to represent the ruling party at the meeting. The deputy president will be speaking on behalf of the ANC, he said.Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said earlier the office of ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe deployed Ramaphosa, an ANC presidential hopeful, as the ruling party s representative to the meeting.This comes on the back of Zuma having staved off a motion of no confidence in an ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting at the weekend.First deputy president Tyotyo James later reiterated Cosatu s central executive committee (CEC) decision to endorse Ramaphosa as its preferred candidate to take over the ANC presidency.His comments was met with rousing applause from delegates. There s no confusion here, we want comrade deputy president to be the president of the ANC. We must not be condemned for saying it while others are making pronouncements and they are not being condemned, James said.Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini, in his opening address, painted a bleak picture of the state of the ANC-led tripartite alliance.He lamented the alliance being in a state of disarray . We have to talk about how we must reconfigure the alliance or the alliance rearrangement because at the moment, where it seems that decisions can be taken by one partner that affects all of us and we are not part of those decisions, that has got to come to end, Dlamini said.He said the alliance could ill-afford further disintegration. He called on its members not to bury their heads in the sand to challenges confronting it. We have no option. We cannot even decide that we can be working against the ANC. At the moment it s hard but the ANC cannot survive on her own without us workers. We have a duty to call the ANC to order when things are not right, he said.Dlamini, making reference to an upcoming alliance political council meeting scheduled for the first week of June, said the alliance should not shy away from tackling tough questions about its state of affairs. At the meeting on the 4th and 5th, we are going to be sitting in the alliance political council to put issues as we are raising them and engage the ANC. But the ANC must help us also to go through this journey of ensuring that we can build a stronger ANC and stronger ANC-led alliance, he said.Dlamini, sharing his reflections on Cosatu relationship with the SACP, said the alliance partners needed to forge stronger relations in an effort to counter the ANC s downward spiral. We have started on a journey of a programme of action that must intensify our working together so that we are able to move forward and to be able to see how we can take ourselves out of this current crisis. We need one another. Dlamini shared the same sentiment for the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco). We have a relationship with Sanco. Most of us here are members of Sanco. We have to ensure that we work together, he said.Bonolo Selebanobonolos@thenewage.co.za