Hundreds of pupils and teachers from Hakboslaagte Primary and other schools in Coligny made their voices heard as they denounced the way Matlhomola Moshoeu died.Moshoeu, 16, was in Grade 6 at Hakboslaagte Primary School.He died on April 20, allegedly at the hands of two white farm workers, Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte.The account of his death is still to be clarified but allegations are that he was severely assaulted by the two men after he was caught stealing sunflowers.In court, an eyewitness said Moshoeu was thrown out of a moving vehicle.Doorewaard and Schutte vehemently deny both sets of allegations.They argued that the boy jumped off the vehicle in an attempt to flee.Since the arrest of the two and their several attempts to get bail, pupils have thronged the Coligny Magistrate s Court in the afternoon, calling for the two to be denied bail.They were also in full force at the funeral in the Scotland informal settlement on Sunday when the deceased was laid to rest.Many of them said they were still shocked their schoolmate had died in such a manner. He was a quiet and reserved kid who did not deserve to die in this manner. We have lost a colleague and friend, one pupil said.A school teacher, who did not want to be identified, said: When they first talked of Matlhomola, I didn t know they referred to him because we knew him as Jonas at school. It was only after I saw pictures that I realised it was this boy in my class. The teacher said she was shocked because Moshoeu was a child who would not do anything illegal. I m even wondering how he could have done the things they said he did. If it was another child, I would agree. Moshoeu was a quiet and obedient child who did not deserve to die in the way he did, she said.School principal Thebe Sekoto described Moshoeu as an ordinary pupil who was able to interact with everybody. He comforted the family and emphasised the importance of education to the community. Education can be used to fight crime and poverty. Let Matlhomola s death be a motivation for the community of Scotland to study and work hard with the ideal of striving for greater heights, he said.At the sombre funeral service, some residents sunflowers .Premier Supra Mahumapelo said Moshoeu s death not only affected the province but the country as a whole. Moshoeu died as a result of racism which manifests itself across the province, from schools to the workplace. The province is faced with many challenges which include white superiority and unless wealth is shared equally, shared among the people, we will not see an end to the anger which is poverty-related. That is why the fifth administration came up with Reconciliation, Healing and Renewal to deal with the stubbornness of racism, he said.Mahumapelo said reconciliation was a never-ending road because it involved many parties. He said the provincial government would meet with white people in Coligny to teach them how to integrate with black people to build a cohesive society.Education and sport development MEC Sello Lehari said while the department was deeply saddened by the death of the pupil they were happy to give him a dignified burial. As a department, we will help the family with everything they need in terms of moral and emotional support. We will follow up this case until the trial ends and ensure that justice prevails, he said.South African Democratic Teachers Union provincial chairperson Mxolisi Bomvana said: The lives of black people seem to be of a very low value. We want the government to act swiftly to ensure racism does not continue unabated. We want white people to join us and fight against racism. Racism is also prevalent in the education system as black pupils are faced with overcrowding in their classes and do not receive the same attention as their white counterparts. Family representative Stanley Mnyakama said he was happy their child received a dignified burial. He said they would be patient as they know the wheels of justice grind slowly. The perpetrators should not receive bail and should remain in custody until the trial ends. Although painful, the funeral proceedings went well, Mnyakama said.Ward 17 councillor Hendrick Mokoto said the death of Matlhomola was painful but he expressed hope that justice would prevail.While several speakers at the funeral emphasised that not all white people were racist, the white community of Coligny did not attend the funeral to show their support. Only one white person could be seen.Meanwhile, the two accused were each granted R5000 bail yesterday.ELFAS TORERAI AND NTHUSANG LEFAFAnews@thenewage.co.za