The North Gauteng High Court will today deliver judgment on former Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza s application to force the Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to allow him back to work pending his Supreme Court appeal.The appeal before the SCA will be heard on June 2 but Ntlemeza wants the court to allow him to return to his office until his appeal is concluded.Last week the matter was struck off the roll due to shoddy paperwork.Ntlemeza s lawyer, advocate Nceba Dukada, said: The applicant has filed an appeal against the enforcement order granted by the full court and that automatically suspended the entire enforcement order. In other words, the status quo ante remains and the applicant must be at work. Dukasa said Mbalula had in the meantime, apart from barring Ntlemeza from work, also confiscated the service vehicle and other accessories from his client. The applicant (Ntlemeza) wants this court to declare such conduct as unconstitutional. The applicant wants the court to prevent the illegal conduct of the first respondent (Mbalula), Dukada said.Mbalula s lawyer advocate Nazeer Cassim, said Ntlemeza was lucky that he was still being paid given that he had been found to be not fit to hold office by five judges and that he had been found to be dishonourable.He argued that Ntlemeza s application was one of status and that his defence counsel was not making a case. You must show that you are worthy of the office you hold. This application must fail on both public interest and urgency. On urgency it must fail because as long the judgment stands it has full effect until it is set aside, he said. If the real issue is a cellphone the minister is not heartless and we can sort one out for him. Cassim said Ntlemeza s reliance on legislation, which suspends the enforcement order, is misplaced. The full bench also dealt with a counter application and this counter application also says if this applicant is going to launch a notice of appeal then we want the full bench to pronounce that.&#8221;-TNA REPORTER