Unless South Africa secured the necessary steps towards structural change in the economy and secure much higher levels of investment in the productive sectors of the economy, radical economic transformation may become a hollow phrase and a moveable feast for any manner of ill-considered economic recipes. This is the view of the Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies, who was speaking at the launch of the ninth iteration of the Industrial Policy Action Plan (Ipap) in Sandton, saying that Ipap is critical to achieving radical economic transformation. “Ipap is firmly entrenched in the government’s overall policy and plans to address the key challenges of economic and industrial growth and race-based poverty, inequality and unemployment. “The plan, which is a key component of the Nine Point Plan, aims to develop a more competitive and diversified economy with a higher global share of products,” Davies said. Emphasising the importance that the government attaches to radical economic transformation and inclusive growth for the local economy, Davies outlined new initiatives that are part of concerted efforts to shift the productive base of the economy in order to create decent and sustainable jobs. “In the simplest terms, radical economic transformation means putting coherent initiatives together that can begin to shift the productive base of our economy away from the inherited colonial division of labour and create decent sustainable jobs, particularly for the most marginalised and vulnerable groups in our society. “It means urgent support for programmes such as the Black Industrialists Programme, which are increasingly being strengthened and deepened, to ensure that ownership, management and control of the economy is increasingly in the hands of black people.” “Radical economic transformation is hard, painstaking work. It needs pragmatism. It requires dialogue. “It requires policy certainty and programme alignment. “It requires a collaborative effort with the private sector. “It needs a willingness to accept trade-offs and sacrifices that can deliver social consent and stability.” He stressed the need for a stepchange to secure a higher impact, lazerfocused industrial strategy which can secure much higher levels of investment, especially in manufacturing, to lead the country’s economy out of its trajectory and to address poverty, unemployment and inequality. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za