Welkom police are requesting members of the public to assist them in tracing the men alleged to have raped two minors.Spokesperson Const Kethabile Mofokeng said the minors, aged 14 and 15, were allegedly raped while on their way to a shop in Riebeeckstad on April 6.She said no arrest had been made since the incident and the police were appealing to members of the public to assist in this matter. While on their way to the shops the duo met two unknown men who asked them where they were coming from. The men had knives in their possession, Mofokeng said. They allegedly demanded money and cellphones from the victims, who said they only had one cellphone. One of the victims said one suspect then took the cellphone and allegedly pushed them down and raped them before leaving the scene. An identikit of the suspects was compiled. The first suspect is light in complexion, slender, 1.8m tall, he was wearing a black jacket and black pants and has short hair and a moustache. The second suspect is dark in complexion, slender, 1.7m tall, he was wearing a black sports hat, black jacket and black pants with black sneakers and shaven head. Mofokeng said anyone with information regarding the incident should contact Det-Const Khabo Lephatsow on 057 391 6184.Meanwhile, also in Welkom, the police are still searching for murder suspects and relatives of a deceased man.Mofokeng said the body of a man was found last Wednesday at Steyn 2 Shaft near the laboratory and Protea Coins control room. The police were called and upon arrival found the body lying in an open field with a stab wound to the throat, Mofokeng said. The deceased was wearing a black shirt, blue jeans and white gumboots. She said the motive for the killing was unknown and the deceased was still at the Welkom government mortuary and no one had come forward to identify him. We are investigating a murder case and no one has been arrested and we are pleading with members of the public to help us find the killer. Anyone with information that will assist the police in tracing the suspect or anyone who might know the deceased s relatives should contact Det-Sgt Teswin Carls at 057 391 6238 or 072 294 9306, Mofokeng said.beckers@thenewage.co.za