The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) is expected to meet with the South African Post Office today to discuss how the state-owned entity will be able to take over the payment of social grants.In a presentation about grants in Parliament yesterday Sassa CEO Thokozani Magwaza asked the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) for two weeks to put together some plans on how to implement a Constitutional Court order about the takeover of social grant payments.About today s meeting with the Post Office, Magwaza said: I ve been saying that this workshop is going to help us. We ve already decided on the South African Post Office. If the post office comes on board it will help us to take over the full stock of what is supposed to happen. We envisage that will be a period of two to three years. We think we ll be able to take over in five years time. Magwaza, who was roasted by members of the committee, said he did not know how Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini had arrived at a figure of R6bn that would be needed over the next five years to ensure that Sassa itself could start paying social grants.Members of Parliament (MPs) were incredulous when Magwaza said he could not answer a question about the R6bn. Are you telling us as the CEO of Sassa that it s not official Sassa policy that this thing is going to cost another five years and another R6bn? Which one is it? You can t both be right. You re saying a year, she s saying five. She s saying R6bn, DA MP Tim Brauteseth said.Portfolio committee chairperson Themba Godi however intervened. The CEO has asked us for two weeks. I personally would not want us to put the CEO in an untenable situation where he must make comments on things that may or may not have been said by his political principal, Godi said.Of his own relationship with Dlamini, Magwaza said he had to defend himself in the Constitutional Court. The relationship between myself and the minister is a cordial relationship. It s an employer-employee relationship. The issue of affidavits that were there, I as an individual had to defend myself, Magwaza said.Magwaza had only joined Sassa last November and could not be blamed for the social grants fiasco. There is no way I can be blamed. Hence, I decided to put forward an affidavit to defend my status and myself. When it comes to the relationship with the minister, we talk almost daily. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za