The recent spate of violence against women and children has sparked many women to come out with their own frightful tales on social media.Many victims have complained of not receiving help from the police when reporting their cases. Where do I go to get help and protection before I become another statistic of a young woman killed by her ex boyfriend? The police have failed me, Sinoxolo Sino Ndzobole posted on her Facebook page. Her post has since made the rounds on Twitter with a tweet from@penny_namane calling for the minister of police to help. She names her alleged abuser as Emmanuel, who is also known as David. Ok @MbalulaFikile please deal with this before we lose our sister Sinoxolo, @penny_namane tweeted.Ndzobole posted screen shots of thread messages between her and the man she named Emmanuel.On her Facebook wall she said the ex-boyfriend had been stalking her since the beginning of the year. If he was not following her, she said, he parked his car in front of her complex gate.She said he changed his numbers every time she blocked him and that he tried to run her over while she was walking.In another conversation through text messaging, Emmanuel threatened her, saying: I ll rape you before I kill you, opening a case didn t help. @penny_namane later replied to her in a tweet on Friday posting a message from Ndzobole where she said that the minister s team contacted her and that she was safe.Police spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga said no woman should be turned away from a police station. He said that they wanted to create a conducive environment where women could report to the police without victimisation from anyone. In the past two months pictures of missing people and those of women who have been killed have been making the rounds on social media, including the brutal killing of Karabo Mokoena, who was killed allegedly by her boyfriend, SandileMantsoe. Recently the body of Popi Qwabe, 24, was found in Naledi, while that of her 28-year-old friend, Bongeka Phungula, was found in neighbouring Tladi the following day.Ndzobole was unavailable for comment.SHONISANI TSHIKALANGEnews@thenewage.co.za