Emalahleni local municipality has assured its citizens that the provision of quality RDP houses and other sustainable basic services would be accelerated in various parts of the municipality in order to honour the people s right to access better services and root out corruption.The municipality s mayor, Lindiwe Ntshalintshali, made the assurance when she delivered the state of the municipality address at the Emalahleni Civic Centre on Thursday evening. Ntshalintshali said they were concerned about the fast growing number of informal settlements within the municipality and they were working hard to overcome the challenge by ensuring that the people were receiving viable services, especially water and electricity as expected. Our human settlements department aims to provide sustainable human settlements and improved quality of household through accelerated delivery of housing and access to basic services closer to employment opportunities. We have through our commitment, undertaken a bestowed responsibility to lead the municipality with humility and acceptance of the great work that is before us hence we identified five goals to be achieved. Those goals are spatial transformation and social cohesion, sustainable and affordable services, clean administration and good governance, financial viability and socio-economic growth and safe environment, Ntshalintshali said.She said they were certain that the delivery of adequate services by the municipality would create a reputable relationship between the municipality and the residents and even abolish fierce service delivery protests. I have no doubt that acceleration of our strategies towards the achievement of the goals will, with no doubt, shorten the social distance we experience in our communities. To us this will mean less service delivery protests which are as a result of the social distance that exist between us as leaders and our communities, Ntshalintshali said. Councillors should ensure that they are always living up to their responsibilities of connecting the residents in their respective places of deployment with the municipality about service delivery and related challenges as needed. This social distance will again shorten calls for all service delivery agents (councillors) to be closer to their communities so that they can be able to be in a dialogue with them because communities need them. They must hold meetings with them for collection of shopping lists as much as for feedback, Ntshalintshali said.Corruption would not be tolerated within the municipality. In as far as labour relations is concerned, 91 cases have been successfully completed for the period July 2016 until April 2017. Furthermore, 13 employees were suspended and six were dismissed, Ntshalintshali said.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za