A collaboration between stakeholders said they would ensure that the Richtersveld community received much-needed development to halt grinding poverty and unemployment that has plagued it for years.The public enterprises and rural development departments alongside the Commission on Restitution of Land Rights Commission on Saturday met with the community in Alexander Bay. The main objective of the meeting was to discuss and agree on the manner in which R45m owed to the community by state-owned mining enterprise Alexkor would be paid out to beneficiaries, regional land claims commissioner Ruwayda Baulackey said.Deputy chief land claims commissioner Cindy Benyane, who chaired the meeting, said Alexkor indicated that the funds were ready to be paid out as per the clause in the deed of settlement. However, the deed of settlement states that the funds must be paid to the Richtersveld Property Holdings Company (RPHC). In previous meetings, the Communal Property Association executive said community members insist that the money be paid to individual beneficiaries, Benyane said. Therefore, the various departments have come to meet with the community to obtain a resolution from the community in relation to the payment of the money due from Alexkor. Community members were urged to update their banking details and identity documents in the meantime, while the beneficiary list was being compiled. The R45m will be divided equally among the beneficiaries so that each beneficiary receives the same amount. The commission will work with Absa Bank to effect payment. Alexkor owed community members the money for the renting of properties in Alexander Bay.The department said there had been delays in the past regarding the payment due to the fact that the deed of settlement said the money must be paid to the RPHC . Unfortunately, the RPHC is not fully functional and therefore a community resolution had to be sought in order to deviate from the deed of settlement. Community members were reminded that only those who were beneficiaries of the Richtersveld restitution claim would be eligible to receive their share of the money. Baulackey said all parties agreed that the conflict plaguing the community after the settlement of the claim must come to an end. The community must unite around the common cause of equality and development, Baulackey said. Richtersveld is a vast and unforgiving environment, stark and dramatic yet strikingly beautiful.This route is for the self-sufficient 4x4er only and it is highly recommended that you travel in a convoy as you traverse this largely uninhabited part of the Northern Cape.It is a mountainous desert situated in the north-west corner of South Africa.To its west is the cold and rough Atlantic Ocean while the remarkable Orange River, the largest river in South Africa, winds along its northern border.The Richtersveld has the highest diversity of succulent plants in the world (4849 species, of which 1940 are endemic), as well as eerie coastal mists, alluvial diamonds and truly indigenous cultures.Charlotte HLANGWANEprovinces@thenewage.co.za