The divisions in the DA run deep. We knew they were divided on the Helen Zille disciplinary matter but now that Zille s side has come out on the offensive against the Mmusi Maimane faction through the pursuance of disciplinary action against Mbali Ntuli, it shows us just how deep these divisions are.After all, as has been reported, the finding by the DA itself was that there was no case against Ntuli. Why the sudden change of heart? Why the sudden resurfacing of a matter that should have been closed? It is the Zille camp s strike against Maimane s.It is not surprising that we are hardly hearing any of this from the media, as much as we would hear about the ANC s factions. There should be no doubt that the lid blown on Bonginkosi Madikizela s birthday bash is an inside job. The DA is way too sophisticated to leak such a story, a story that smells directly of corruption.We await the DA s suspension of Madikizela pending a full investigation let s see if the pot calls the kettle black. Don t hold your breath, some of my comrades say.The Madikizela story is not only significant because of its exposure of the divisions in the DA but it also illustrates that the Zille faction has access to resources and will engage in patronage. Zille has been able to hold her sway precisely because she, until recently, was the only DA leader who headed a provincial government that the DA had access to its funds.Besides the inroads which they have started to make in Johannesburg and Tshwane since August 2016, up until a year ago, the Western Cape and the city of Cape Town was the only real place where DA funders would have been able to cash in on their investments.Zille heads a provincial government with a total expenditure budget in the region of R65bn, by 2018-19, whereas the city of Cape Town had a budget in the region of R45bn for 2016.This could give us a clue as to why Patricia de Lille chose to concentrate her efforts on the city of Cape Town and in particular to concentrate on who gets what and what all of this means for her and her faction s future in the DA. A story for another day.As a result, Maimane and the rest of the young Turks, with the black ones being the face of this faction, only have access to the budget provided to them by Parliament. This is nothing compared to the machinery that Zille heads and the patronage power that she possesses. Maimane is aware of this and as a result Zille s comments on colonialism is opportune for him to get rid of her.The irony of course is that it was Zille who pushed and pruned these young Turks. Starting with Lindiwe Mazibuko, Zille surrounded herself with people who today hold positions of influence in the party.Maimane, himself a product of Zille s making, was elected to the top job in the DA, after his campaign was headed by Geordin Hill-Lewis. Hill-Lewis is a member of the DA s national caucus, at one stage the youngest MP but more importantly once a key aide and heading her office.Yet this creation and promoting of younger members of the party became most explicit when Zille, in her fallout with Mazibuko, retaliated by saying she had made Mazibuko.Athol Trollip would later hold the same sentiments about Veliswa Mvenya, whom he would later admit to grooming to take over from him as the Eastern Cape leader of the DA. When the clever black started to annoy Trollip and not dancing to his tune, he discarded her and chose Nqaba Banga to succeed him. Such remains white power in the DA.These actions, in which both Zille and Trollip s instances were explicit, have serious racial undertones. Ironically, it was Zille s prot g , Mazibuko, who, with Zille s overt support, dethroned Trollip as leader of the official opposition in the National Assembly.Today, it has gone full circle: Trollip sits on the same leadership that is pursuing the disciplinary charges against Zille.In January 2015, the Mail and Guardian ran a story indicating that Zille was running for a third term as party leader because she still had a lot to offer , as she was quoted saying at the time. Less than five months later, on the eve of the party s conference, Zille resigned as party leader and indicated that she would not be running for a third term, this time indicating that one has to read a situation and try and get as close to reality as possible before reaching a conclusion .How had the reality changed so drastically in less than five months?Maimane and Co had outwitted their guru and were planning to face off with Zille at the conference if she did not resign and decided to run for a third term. Instead of openly dividing the party, she came to a compromise with them, a compromise she read out in her resignation statement: It goes without saying that I intend to complete my second term as premier of the Western Cape. With a history of recalls in our country, it was not that obvious that Zille would complete her term and therefore for her to insist that it goes without saying , as she was making known, was an attempt to paint her handlers into a corner. Zille fell for their bluff for they knew that if she faced Maimane in the elective conference, she would slaughter him.The DA and its urge to go black could not afford that and she gave them the leadership of the party, thinking they would leave her in peace in her kingdom. Her intuition, advice and instinct have proven fatal.Since May 2015, Zille knew that she was now part of history despite her running the Western Cape government. Like our own homegrown Donald Tweeting Trump, she shoots from the hip and uses Twitter as a medium to reveal some of her most exposing sentiments.Probably receiving advice from her close friends Joel Pollak and Rhoda Kadalie, she was advised to speak directly to the people. Anything to remain relevant. If one wanted to know what Zille was thinking, read her tweets.Her thinking includes that African children attending schools in the Western Cape are refugees. She thinks that white journalists who criticise DA are merely trying to be politically correct while black students at UCT receive her condemnation for protesting. Her latest tweets on colonialism are therefore not surprising and once again expose Zille and her racism the real DA.The tweets gave Maimane s faction the bullet they finally needed to do away with her completely. Even Madikizela, the Western Cape s interim leader, admitted that the colonialism tweets would do the DA much harm in attracting black African voters.Zille s reaction and defence of her tweets were predictable as she accused Maimane of turning the DA into an ANC Lite. In light of the backlash of the colonialism tweets, Zille came out spoke up for her core constituency, white liberals and conservative coloureds who are losing control of the DA.There are men who deny their benefitting of patriarchy, sexism and misogyny because they believe the consoling words of their wives or partners that they are not trash.With this same logic, Madikizela reassures Zille that she is not racist and therefore the Ntuli disciplinary hearing becomes a side show with the coincidental part being that the accused is black.However, Zille s disciplinary hearing or lack thereof, is about the battle for the soul of the DA. Zille with her overwhelming support in the DA, for as mentioned she would have routed Maimane at the conference and continues to call the shots. This lack of his support will be confirmed if Maimane loses this battle.South Africa s iron lady is not fighting for her own survival rather she is fighting to preserve the colonial and racist heritage and habits of the DA.Buyile Sangolekhaya MatiwaneBuyile Sangolekhaya Matiwane is chairperson of the South African Students Congress in the Western Cape