Were the appointment of the Bafana Bafana coach determined by public polls, Gavin Hunt would be the new man at the helm of the national team.Not that Hunt harbours any regrets about not having been given the job, as he hadn t thrown his name into the hat for it in the first place. For the record it was Stuart Baxter who was confirmed as the new Bafana coach, following months of searching for the right man, which included as many as 52 candidates from across the football world.However, by many accounts, Hunt deserved a crack at international football, with many pointing to his impeccable credentials as a home-grown coach who has earned his stripes in a career spanning 22 years. Even Pitso Mosimane, his PSL antagonist, endorsed him, reasoning that Hunt has paid his dues and was worth a look in for the position, which had been left vacant by ex-coach Shakes Mashaba. I have no regrets at all because I didn t apply for the job. But coaching the national team is an honour for any coach in the world, Hunt said. It s humbling that there are people who feel I should have been considered for the job and possibly be the coach. But it s everyone s opinion. That is up to the authorities. They decide what s best for the national team and they have made their decision. We have to support Stuart (Baxter) and wish him all the best. Personally, I don t know him that well. We only see each other during games and press conferences. But I know the work he has done. Hunt has been voted the PSL s coach of the year on four occasions, first as coach of less fancied Black Leopards back in 2002 and he then went on to add three more accolades when he guided SuperSport United to three consecutive league titles in 2008 and 2010. He is on verge of capturing a fourth PSL title, as he leads Bidvest Wits in a fierce battle for honours against Mamelodi Sundowns and Cape Town City. And that is exactly where his focus is at the moment. I m focused on the task at hand and that s the league. I do believe we have a chance of winning the league, Hunt said. Baxter will begin Bafana duty following the conclusion of the PSL season later this month.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za