After failure to win any silverware this season, there was talk among Kaizer Chiefs players that they need to at least finish second or third to qualify for the CAF Champions League or Confederation Cup next year.But that notion is likely to remain just a dream following Chiefs 1-0 shock defeat to Polokwane City on Saturday in a league match. With two games remaining before the end of the Absa Premiership, Chiefs are likely to finish fifth again unless they beat Platinum Stars and log leaders Bidvest Wits in their remaining matches and hope City and SuperSport fail to collect a point. Chiefs coach Steve Komphela said they will continue to fight for three points despite his charges showing a lack of motivation in recent matches. The aim now is to fight for three points and finish the league, Komphela said. There is nothing you can do about it. The programme is out and clear, to win the next two matches that s what we are looking for at this stage. Komphela also admitted his attackers lacked the killer instinct needed to bury chances, while also ruing his defenders inability to again see out a clean sheet.Chiefs have now failed to keep a clean sheet in their last four outings, conceding seven goals in the process. You need to check the chances you create. Maybe one thing we could have done better is play forward quicker and penetrate more, Komphela said. But as well, penetration would be affected by Polokwane s defensive block. The central part of it was blocked, so maybe we needed to go wide, go come, go wide, get a cross in. Those are things in football that define the moment. I think we defended badly in the corners. We don t normally concede corner kicks; last season we conceded a lot, this season only once. We should have defended better. I thought in defence you need to put your body on the line. There are stages where the ball, even if it s 50-50 or 60-40, we just need to put a stronger foot in so that you can defend. Chiefs will play Platinum Stars on Wednesday at Royal Bafokeng Stadium.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za