Amajita coach Thabo Senong has blamed their early exit from the U-20 Fifa World Cup on a lack of competition for the youngsters at home. While the World Cup is still on in South Korea, the South Africans are back home after they failed to match their peers.Amajita finished at the bottom of Group D with just one point from a possible nine, failing to outshine Uruguay, Italy and Japan. Despite departing for the tournament with a lot of confidence that they could match their opponents, the coach came back home singing a different tune. On arrival on Monday, Senong said it was always going to be hard for them to match their opponents as their players have experience of playing at the highest level. Maybe one needs to make sure that all these youngsters in South Africa get good game time at the higher level, maybe PSL and NFD as well, the coach said. That will help them by fasttracking their development because what we lack is tactical maturity. Our boys are not exposed to very tough football every weekend and that was the difference between us, Italy, Uruguay and Japan because all their players are playing at a higher level. Most of the players who represented South Africa at the World Cup are regulars for their clubs in the Multichoice Diski Challenge. Senong had at least three players who are regulars for their senior sides in the PSL, with two of them arriving late in South Korea. The coach believes if more of his players were enjoying some game time in the top tier, maybe they would have made it out of the group stages. We saw players like Grant Magerman, Reeve Frosler and Teboho Mokoena how they excelled because of the kind of competition they are getting every weekend and hopefully that will happen with the rest of the squad, he said.Despite Amajita and Guinea bowing out of the World Cup, Africa is well represented with Zambia and Senegal still in the running for places in the final. Zambia will play Germany for a spot in the quarterfinals today while Senegal take on Mexico tomorrow.-SITHEMBISO DINDI&nbsp;