Sixty-three Gauteng women have been murdered in just 30 days, with 10 confirmed to have been killed by their partners.Police revealed the shocking statistics for the period from April 1 to May 21 as the death of Eskom employee Thembisile Yende shocked the province yesterday.Yende s body was found at an Eskom substation in Springs after she went missing from work two weeks ago.Police spokesperson Lt-Col Lungelo Dlamini said the number was too high and worrying and expressed disappointment that some were killed by their intimate partners. I can confirm that 10 women were killed in domestic violence-related incidents, Dlamini said.The report indicated that most of the murders were committed by the victims boyfriends or husbands, adding credence to a Medical Research Council statement that said a woman was killed every eight hours by their intimate partner in South Africa.The police report showed that most of the killings took place in the victims homes at weekends between 8pm and midnight.Police Minister Fikile Mbalula last week declared war on crime and women killers following the much publicised murder of Karabo Mokoena, allegedly by her boyfriend. A young lady, Karabo, brutally killed by her boyfriend in Johannesburg and Flora Moetshe reported missing after last being seen with her boyfriend. This situation is unacceptable. It calls on all of us to respond equally to the fight that criminals are mounting on us. As the Ministry of Police, we want the country and the world to know that we are declaring war against criminals and criminality, Mbalula said.Police said at least 31 people had been arrested in connection with some of the murders. Some of the motives for the killings were stated as jealousy or love triangles. The report said the Westonaria police station west of Johannesburg had the most number of reported murder cases.Provincial police commissioner Maj-Gen Deliwe de Lange said crime intelligence and forensics needed to assist urgently to arrest the perpetrators. When we analyse dockets or attend to the scene, that s where you find the body lying there. Some of them are burnt bodies, some are yet to be identified. We are still awaiting forensic reports. That s why we say we don t know the motive because we don t know the person. Some of these bodies, you can see this person was murdered somewhere else and the body was just dropped there. We don t know the motive. If intelligence can help us together with forensics, we will be able to deal with our situation, de Lange said.From April to date, Gauteng has experienced a spate of violent and brutal attacks against women and children where in some of the cases the women were burnt beyond recognition. Some of the incidents included ones that shook the country.On May 17, The New Age reported that Gauteng police had set up a task team comprising of 16 detectives to probe the spate killings of women over that weekend, when the death toll had risen to 10. The task team was established to deal with crimes against women including a spate of robberies, rapes and kidnapping incidents.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAdikeledir@thenewage.co.za