This year s Carling Black Label Champion Cup has given Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates fans much more to think about ahead of the showpiece clash on July 29 at FNB Stadium.Apart from selecting their starting line-up, Champion coaches have also had to choose the formation they believe will give their team victory. There are many factors to consider, not least which formation best suits the attributes of the players. Farouk Khan is recognised as one of the most astute and respected coaches in South Africa, developing top names for Bafana through his Stars of Africa Football Academy.Kaizer Chiefs left back Sibusiso Khumalo and former Orlando Pirates forward Tokelo Rantie are two of the many players he has groomed. Khan believes formations are not effective unless you have the right players for each position, and that is something Champion coaches should think about. Furthermore, Khan believes that 4-3-3, which has become popular throughout the world, is best used when you have quick wingers.Only a handful of South African teams tend to play this formation, Absa Premiership champions Bidvest Wits being one and it is not usually adopted by Chiefs or Pirates. Chiefs and Pirates both tend to play a 4-2-3-1, or slight modification thereof. This requires two strong holding midfielders, but one has to go a bit further forward and another to shield the backline. It allows for quick transitions and that is why it is popular, Khan said. So in the case of Chiefs, you have a Willard Katsande to break up the play and, say, George Maluleka who also plays that anchor role, but joins the attack more. For Pirates, it is similar, though they have been a little less adventurous. Issa Sarr and Abbubaker Mobara tend to sit in front of the defence more. This system allows both teams to have their attacking players join the lone striker when they have possession of the ball. Chiefs have changed their striker in recent games, they can play Bernard Parker or Gustavo Paez, but then they have attacking threat in Siphiwe Tshabalala, George Lebese and one of William Twala, Joseph Molangoane and Hendrik Ekstein to join the attack. All are very skilful players. Pirates are the same, they have either Tendai Ndoro or Thamsanqa Gabuza up front. But sitting behind them are three attacking midfielders Oupa Manyisa, Thabo Rakhale and then a guy like Luvoyo Memela or Riyaad Norodien, Khan said.-SPORTS REPORTER|news@thenewage.co.za