An imbizo of the SACP in Gauteng has heard that in-fighting within the ANC-led tripartite alliance is undermining the alliance s historical position of being a leader of society.The SACP in the province said in a statement following its imbizo held in Alberton at the weekend, that the ruling party was abdicating its responsibility to lead by example. The ANC s alliance partner said that factionalism was steering the ANC s focus away from pressing societal challenges. Our collective ability to lead the NDR has been undermined by a range of factors including increasing unemployment, poverty and inequality in our society, corruption in government institutions and constant in-fighting and factionalism within progressive organisations, the SACP said. Our democratic republic is facing major challenges that includes a deliberate weakening and liquidation of major state institutions such as the State Owned Enterprises (SOE s), the capture of key departments, the onslaught on chapter nine bodies. The comments came against the background of a Constitutional Court hearing on why MP s should be allowed to vote by a secret ballot in the motion of confidence debate on President Jacob Zuma. Added to the mix was the ANC summoning Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown appearing before the ANC s top leaders yesterday to explain the rationale behind the reappointment of Eskom CEO Brian Molefe. The SACP said Molefe s return to Eskom among others, threatened to deepen the country s economic and political crisis. These developments have been accentuated by the release of the state of capture report, court decisions on the Sassa grants payment, the use of a rogue intelligence report for an unprincipled Cabinet reshuffle that plunged our country to junk investment rating, it said.It said that the ANC was burying its head in the sand to the numerous antiZuma marches. A broad range of societal and civil society organisations have emerged to take up social justice and other issues that demand public accountability. A sense of impunity and disdain for our people has developed within our ranks with the consequences of the emergence of social distance between our organisations and our people. It is for this reason the SACP said, the ANC was turning its back on the electorate. We strongly believe that these factors have combined to reduce our influence in society as a whole and undermine the hard earned historic role of the ANC led alliance as a leader of society. We further believe that these factors place the future of the National Democratic Revolution at stake and threaten to reverse all attempts to promote progressive ideas and alternative economic path in the Southern African Development Community region and the continent as a whole, is said.-TNA REPORTERnews@thenewage.co.za