Judge Bashir Vally s reasons for a ruling compelling President Jacob Zuma to hand over all records explaining his Cabinet reshuffle to the DA has unleashed a political storm.Vally relied on the interpretation of rule 53 when reviewing an executive decision. The rule, established in 1965, was devised to regulate the procedure to be followed for cases of review. Zuma relied on the provision that it does not apply to an application to review an executive decision.Vally said that rule 53 was established at a time when executive decisions were not subject to review and that it allows the courts to perform their inherent review function to scrutinise the exercise of public power for compliance with constitutional prescriptions.These were among the chief reasons why Vally ruled that Zuma must hand over all records related to the Cabinet reshuffle.Vally said the announcement of a reshuffle caused a great deal of consternation. It is no exaggeration to say that it was received with shock, alarm and dismay by many. One reason for this is that it came on the heels of an extensive public complaint that incessant malversation had embedded itself in our public life and that the country was mired in the quicksand of corruption, Vally said.Vally s ruling has been labelled as unconstitutional by the ANC.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said: The ruling is in violation of the Constitution and undermines it. The president is given powers to appoint his deputy, ministers and deputy ministers and may dismiss them. That decision is political, hence the irrationality. The judge s decision contains judicial overreach. Kodwa said the president now has all the reasons to appeal or take the decision by the court on review. It is very dangerous for the courts in their ruling to consider public opinion, those issues must be left to political parties, Kodwa said.Zuma s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, on Monday told The New Age that the president was applying his mind on whether to appeal. He has not decided, Ngqulunga said.Constitutional law expert Marinus Wiechers said: It s not for the court to judge the rationality of the decision. Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said it was worrying to have judicial activism led by an untransformed judiciary. We are faced with a difficult situation where the executive lets down people only to be rescued by the judiciary. We find ourselves where the judiciary has to know its limit but there are a lot of cases where we had to rely on judges to intervene, Pamla said.The DA approached the court on an urgent basis seeking to obtain the reasons why Zuma had removed former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas, saying an intelligence report was used to reach this decision. The president has not raised any issue about their existence or non-existence. He has not dealt with the existence or non-existence of this report. Last Thursday, the president was given five (now two) days to submit documents that explain the reshuffle.NONDUMISO ZWANEnews@thenewage.co.za