The presidency and the government are concerned that remedies proposed by former public protector Thuli Madonsela infringed on the separation of powers.Talking about what he called the public discourse, President Zuma said yesterday he wanted to place it on record that neither the government nor the presidency was opposed to a Commission of Inquiry into state capture.They fully supported an Inquiry as it would help to uncover the facts and remove rumours around the extent of capture.However, the manner in which the former public protector had proposed remedies be implemented were causing delays because they infringed on the powers of the president of the Republic, Zuma said during his budget vote in the national Assembly. If this is left unattended it would cause problems even for future heads of state as it sets a wrong precedent. Legal advice, Zuma said, pointed to the fact that the remedial action on how a Commission of Inquiry should be appointed undermined the doctrine of the separation of powers. We trust that this matter will be resolved as soon as possible.President Zuma also slammed violence against women. Some of the women are killed by people they trusted, their intimate partners. Violence against women has been declared a priority crime by the government. Nobody has the right to attack women. He urged women to report perpetrators to the police. We also appeal to families to provide support to the survivors. He said South Africa was also facing human trafficking and forced prostitution. It is despicable that there are people who turn other human beings into commodities to make money. This is a gross violation of human rights and is tantamount to modern day slavery. Zuma appealed to families to support their children when they reported abuse by anyone, including family members. They should also be taught to identify abuse and inappropriate conduct by adults towards them. He recalled his visits to the Elsie s River home of three-year-old Courtney Peters, who was murdered earlier this month. The community reminded us that the solution to crime will not come only from policing. On social grants payments, he said, the South African Social Security Agency would submit a quarterly report to the Constitutional Court.The agency would also begin engagements with other organs of state, including the Post Office, to phase out the services of the current service provider. The plan is to phase in the services of the new service provider by November this year. South Africa s downgrade to junk made the process of transforming the economy of South Africa difficult yet necessary. As we seek to radically transform the economy, we need to be mindful of the structural challenges as the South African economy continues to be driven by consumption, global demand for mineral commodities and a narrow productive base with a few large companies that control the entire value chain. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za