Participants in the week-long business workshop have hailed it a success as they acquired skills needed to run their businesses.The workshop held in Roodepan was aimed at addressing the shortage of business knowledge and market opportunities to black-owned businesses in townships.Co-organiser Motheo Seleke said although they began with a poor turn out more people attended as the week went on and the event was a success.He said more young people attended and raised issues of concern regarding their businesses and how to sustain them going forward.Seleke said the workshop included modules such as personal development, business plans, business finance, marketing and sales, support and funding services modules in entrepreneurship, business management and business plans.The workshop was held under the banner #TheBigShantyShakeUp which seeks to attract young black people who own businesses to acquire skills.Workshop coordinator Lizelle Coombs said it was of importance that small business owners especially in township areas gathered knowledge of how to run their businesses to the best of their abilities.Coombs said their workshops aimed to educate new and already existing businesses how to be sustainable and generate more income. The programme is 10 years old and it has assisted many people not only in the province but across the country. We are funded by mostly private sector and the government. We are looking into getting all the young entrepreneurs who are selling small things in townships to equip them and give them much needed knowledge of how to run a business, Coombs said. She said the reason they were looking into informal traders was to ensure that they trained them to move from living on a day to day income to a monthly income. A lot of people we have interacted with need self esteem, business skills and opportunities to showcase their talent. Our challenge is to get to the people to inform them that there is free training and information on how to run their businesses, she said.Coombs said their workshops were mostly practical and they made sure they mentored such businesses for 12 months. We do no just train them and let them go, we also try by all means to get funding for them especially those that have documents in place, she said.Meanwhile, business owner Nicholas Ndayi said the training was very helpful and would go a long way to ensure that they kept their businesses open. This workshop looks at how we can develop our businesses to create jobs, how we can get better funding and operate on an income basis. This workshop gave us business skills which we did not have. It helps us to interact with stakeholders and possible funders, importantly it gives us skills of how to run a business, he said.Participants received NQF level 2 certificates accredited through a partnership with HGG NPO Sustainability Solutions.He said the province needed to create more economic opportunities to enable investors to start coming to the province, which would ultimately create employment especially among young people.Mining, agriculture and tourism in the province were regarded as the major economic drivers that have the ability to create jobs especially in rural communities. The main contributors to increased economic activity in 2016 were finance, real estate and business service, he said.Marketing manager of Brand South Africa Tshepiso Malele said they aimed to attract investors to the province as well as engage with different stakeholders on how to sell the province to other African countries.Malele said it was important for businesses in the province to take part in initiatives brought to their doorstep either by the private or public sector.He was speaking during the agency s recent visit in the province and raised concern about the lack of interest by black businesses in interacting with them. The event went well, but we were disappointed with the turn-out. We will host another one next year in the province to urge businesses to participate with the key focus on enhancing and unlocking potential business opportunities. We will focus on the youth, academics, stakeholders and business as a whole to see the province and attract tourists. When we go outside the country we sell the whole country and all attractive aspects of our nine provinces. It s important that everyone comes to the table, he said.According to Brand South Africa The Big Hole also plays an important role in attracting tourists and investment.Brand SA also said projects such as the Square Kilometre Array played an important role in selling the province to African states which could see the tourism economy in the province growing rapidly. Our partnering with the SKA has very positive results not only for the province but also the continent and worldwide as we continue to sell the brand South Africa, he said.TIISETSO MANOKOtiisetsom@thenewage.co.za