The Young Communist league of SA (YCLSA) yesterday lashed out at the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) for double standards in crying foul over President Jacob Zuma s May Day of shame.YCLSA chairperson Yershen Pillay reminded the young lions of their silence when SACP second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila, like Zuma, was heckled and booed during a wreath-laying ceremony for slain SACP leader Chris Hani in Boksburg.He said that while it was wrong for Cosatu supporters to reject an ANC leader at its alliance partner s event, the ANC and its leagues lacked consistency in condemning acts of ill-discipline within the ranks of the alliance. Two wrongs don t make a right. You can t condemn one part of the alliance and forget that Solly Mapaila was disrupted to the extent that he was even prevented from speaking.We never saw any open condemnation for the disruption from the youth league. Why be selective in condemning ill-discipline? Let s be consistent in our condemnations, Pillay said.His comments come on the back of a YCLSA political commission meeting on Tuesday. The meeting reflected on issues raging from the ANC s internal state of affairs to the YCLSA s intent to push the SACP at its national congress in July to go at it alone at the 2019 national elections.Pillay, making reference to allegations raised by the ANC in the Free State that Cosatu supporters were bused in from Bloemfontein s surrounding towns to throw a spanner in the event s works, said the ANC s views were out of touch with the levels of public discontent over the leadership of Zuma. We viewed it as an expression of workers who felt that they should use the platform to raise their issues. How can you blame workers for expressing their discontent? We think not. Workers on the ground are not happy with the current situation. Society is in a crisis, the state is in decay. Pillay said the YCL would persuade the SACP at its upcoming congress to adopt a final resolution on contesting the 2019 elections. It s a YCLSA resolution to persuade the SACP congress in July to seriously consider contesting elections in 2019 as an independent vanguard of the working class. We have not made significant progress in consolidating our democracy. In that discussion, the ANC can assist us on that challenge but only to the extent that we will be heard, if not, then we will consider going at it alone. However, ANCYL secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza said the YCLSA was clutching at straws. He said the ANCYL regarded Mapaila s heckling in Boksburg as only negligible. It s lies, it was just a small group of people and it was controlled, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za