Save the ANC from itself was yesterday s appeal by hundreds of workers as they braved the autumn heat in a march to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE).ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe delivered an ominous warning that if the ruling party elected a president of dubious character at its December elective conference, the ANC risked being voted out of power in the 2019 general elections. Help us, comrades, to fight factionalism, let s have a good congress in December. If we come up with a leadership that says to society, looting is continuing in the form of the leadership we elect, I can tell you that we can as well kiss 2019 goodbye, Mantashe said. It is in your interest for us not to kiss 2019 goodbye, it is in your interest to work very hard so that the ANC rediscovers itself. We will not find solutions to the current problems from the solutions in Morogo (ANC 1969 Morogo conference). Today, the biggest problem is looting, corruption, it s factionalism, it s nepotism. Mantashe s comments came against the backdrop of the race towards the ANC s December elective conference having laid bare factional fault lines over who should be the ruling party s next president.Mantashe, making reference to sharp divisions in the ANC over whether former African Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma or deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa should take over the reins of the ANC in December, said the culture of vote-buying threatened to compromise the ANC s conference. Factions are very strong and undermine the ANC. When you combine factionalism and corruption you will have what I call accidental leadership successions. This is when people who become leaders are those who have access to money and they get voted into power and we all ask ourselves, how did they get elected? Mantashe said the ANC-led Tripartite Alliance could not afford to disintegrate any further. It s not about whether we love each other or not. We are stuck together, we belong together, we have shared trenches together and that commitment must not be questioned. SACP deputy general secretary Jeremy Cronin said a two-pronged threat of big monopoly capital and another within the ANC s ranks could relegate the ANC to the ash-heap of history. Our democratic gains are under threat. They are under threat for two basic reasons. We ve had 23 years of democracy, but still there is massive unemployment. The other threat comes from those who loot the state, who loot Eskom, who loot SAA, who loot Transnet, who loot social grants, Cronin said.Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali s support for Ramaphosa to lead the ANC was met with rapturous applause from ANC supporters.He reiterated Cosatu s central executive committee s call for President Jacob Zuma to be replaced by his deputy.-Bonolo Selebano