When I heard of Karabo Mokoena s brutal killing by her lover, I followed the story closely.That same week, we heard in the news that several others had been killed by men that week. More than five tragic incidents of women s lives cut short were reported in one week. Many more women whose deaths don t make news headlines are victims of genderbased violence.And there isn t much being done about it. I decided I was going to join the ANC Women s League when members visited the family of Lerato Moloi of Naledi, Soweto, one of the many who had been slain that week.I wanted to share the pain and outrage of those who were close to her. A march was organised to the Naledi police station after the family visit to demand justice for Lerato and say enough is enough! On my way to Naledi that week, I caught a taxi from the Bree Street taxi rank. While sitting in the taxi, I realised that the killings of women in such gruesome ways had touched me deeply and threatened my being.While women had been dying at the hands of men long before, these latest incidents came with a reawakened consciousness of powerlessness and fear as a woman. It was personal. I was so scared, I asked myself what if the driver took a detour and we were raped and killed or kidnapped and taken to a place we didn t know?The thought sent cold chills down my spine. The deaths of all women who die at the hands of men feels personal because it could be me. Gender-based violence and woman abuse is personal, rape and rape culture is personal, patriarchy is personal, capitalism is personal. We were lucky we arrived safely but it s not every day that women are lucky in the different spaces they occupy.The recent attacks on women, kidnapping, gender-based violence, rape, rape culture and murders of women and girls must not just be condemned. To say we condemn it, as Minister of Women in the Presidency Susan Shabangu said, is not enough. To say there is a devil and we must pray is also not enough. We need tangible responses to this tragedy.We need action and programmes to be put in place that speak to the safety of our women and children. We need radical policies and laws that protect women. It is difficult to report an abuser or rapist who is not caught in the act and have a successful case, so our laws need to change and become gender sensitive.We also need to intensify gender education from pre-school to university. These are debates we would like the Minister of Women to lead and guide the government on. We must also look at these incidents as not only the gender issue they are but also as part of a brutal system of patriarchal capitalism that reduces female bodies to commodities that are exchanged for hefty amounts of money.The body parts of women are used for muti in rituals vaginal parts, breasts and other body parts are commodities that form part of different muti concoctions. We need to regulate inyangas and witches on the kind of muti they can produce. The leadership of traditional healers who have in-depth knowledge on all these rituals that require body parts need to speak out against the bad inyangas feasting on the body parts of our women and people in general.They need to give us solutions on how to curb these heinous acts that undermine life and create a secret market for body parts. Many of our women are raped and some are killed after the act. The men who rape defranchise and subjugate our women. They believe our women have no right to decide who they sleep with and how. They forcefully declare war on the female body and hurt it.Such men with a superiority complex are many and they are everywhere, which is why we insist the body of a woman is no longer safe anywhere. Our organisations, communities and the government need to do something about it and now! Gender-based violence is a result of male ego and men today who fail to comprehend how highly opinionated our women are so they decide to inflict physical punishment on women as a way of asserting their so-called superiority.Religious and cultural spaces that reinforce male superiority need to be confronted and a discussion of cultural transformation that removes negative patriarchal chauvinist practices must be encouraged. There is industry of sex work in which the women are not there by choice but as a result of their economic circumstances. They need a means to provide for themselves and their families. Worse still are those women who are kidnapped and forced into prostitution. The continued debate on prostitution should be on how we create opportunities and skills as an exit plan for those who want to leave .It should also look at how we regulate the industry for the protection of those who choose to work as sex workers. Apart from the taxes that can be collected from the sex work industry, our concern should be to improve the working conditions of these women who often fall prey to rape and gender-based violence.The belief that to regulate sex work is to encourage the already unequal capitalist relations in the relationship only deepens the same unequal power relations that make sex workers more vulnerable. As the SACP and ANC go to their national congresses this year, this debate on sex workers should be on the agendas.Moreover, the police must have a special task force that monitors sex workers because ordinary police personnel usually abuse and extort from them, and even rape them, instead of protecting them. Lerato Moloi and many others were killed because they were just women. Many continue to be abused and raped because they are just women. Our politicians and political parties are only issuing piecemeal statements without solutions because the victims are just women.Social movements and the clergy are not marching in the streets, closing down cities to save South African from rape and genderbased violence because the victims are just women. The anger and outrage is not enough from all of us because they were just women, and for being women they will continue to suffer and die in the hands of men. That s why as women we must stand and fight!Precious BandaPrecious Banda is a gender activist.