Thanda Royal Zulu coach Roger Sikhakhane will continue to lead PSL returnees in the next season, according to his agent and the club.There was fear among Thanda fans when Sikhakhane was conspicuous by his absence in their last game of the National First Division against Real Kings in Durban on Sunday. Thanda CEO Jomo Biyela said the coach had caught flu on Saturday and they had acted on the doctor s advice. The coach was with the team throughout the week leading up to the Sunday match. He fell ill on Saturday and as a precaution, the doctor felt he should go and rest at home since it was cold. When he recovers, he will resume his duties, Biyela said.Sikhakhane s agent, Abbie Rasimphi, also confirmed the former Chippa United coach would be in charge of the KZN side next season. Roger is not going anywhere. You must remember that he is a loyal and honest person. He might have got calls from other teams but he won t entertain them. You must remember that Thanda offered him a job when he was jobless after being dumped by Chippa. He is grateful to Thanda and is looking forward to helping the team make a statement in the Premiership next season, Rasimphi said.Meanwhile, Biyela allayed fears that Thanda would relocate to another province should sponsors fail to come on board. The club s chairperson, Pierre Delvaux, was quoted in the media as saying he would consider selling the club s franchise to interested buyers from other provinces. I m more worried about the financial model and getting a financial sponsor. We don t have a main sponsor so we need to get a sponsor on board so we can be competitive in the Premier League, Delvaux said. It would be sad not to get a sponsor and we would be forced to consider drastic changes, which could result in the club being sold or moved. At the end of the day, it has to be sustainable and we ve carried it all these years. In the Premier League it s a whole new ball game so we need sponsors to come on board and I m sure that they will. I m positive that is not going to be a problem. -LINDA XIMBA|news@thenewage.co.za