Following the disappointment of failing to achieve a top eight PSL finish, Platinum Stars coach Cavin Johnson said going all out and excelling on the continental stage will be the best consolation for his team.Dikwena fell short of the coveted top eight spot by just a point to two KwaZulu-Natal clubs, Golden Arrows and Maritzburg United. They finished ninth on the log with 37 points but ended the season on a high note, defeating SuperSport United 1-0 thanks to Bonginkosi Ntuli s second half goal on Saturday at Lucas Moripe Stadium. Dikwena coach Cavin Johnson is obviously disappointed about finishing ninth but is happy they are still in the top tier as they were in the relegation mix at some point in the season. We didn t make the top eight. We are still in the PSL. We can look forward to building. Most important for us is to relax now, Johnson said. Though it was disappointing for Stars to narrowly miss out on the top eight, they are still in the running for a quarterfinal spot in the CAF Confederation Cup.However, they will need to work harder if they are to progress to the next round as they sit bottom of Group B with just a point from two matches. Johnson and his side still have four matches to play in the group stage, two of which will be at home. In their first match in the round robin format, Stars drew with MC Alger of Algeria before losing 4-2 to Mbabane Swallows, where they gave a lacklustre performance away. The PSL is done. We need to concentrate on our African safari that we are not doing so well in, Johnson said. We would like to pull up our socks and play a better game as far as CAF is concerned. You never know when you are going to play in this tournament again. Stars will be on the road again this week as they travel to Tunisia, where they will visit CS Sfaxien on Sunday. Sfaxien are second in the group with three points and a victory for Stars will take them to four points and increase their chances of making the quarterfinals. We know they are a good team, though they lost to MC Alger in their last game. We know the type of pitch they play on and the players they have. They are good technically, Johnson said. We are going to go out there and play the best we can, I have said that to the players before. It s about showing your talents and showing what you can do on the continent. -SITHEMBISO DINDI|sithembisod@thenewage.co.za