Bafana Bafana midfielder Kamohelo Mokotjo could be on his way out of FC Twente as he aims to play with the big boys in a top league.The midfielder played possibly his final match for Twente when they went down 5-3 to Groningen at the weekend. And no sooner had they concluded their last league match when speculation on his future began to swirl. The 26-year-old attacking midfielder has made it clear he wants to pursue his career elsewhere, possibly in England, having spent eight seasons in the Netherlands. He has been a vital part of Twente s side, being one of the most highly rated defensive midfielders in the Dutch Eredivisie.The Eredivisie concluded with Feyenoord winning the league at the weekend while Twente finished unremarkably in seventh spot. Without the Uefa Champions League or Europa Cup football to look forward to, Mokotjo has all the more reason to go. I m ready to play football in a more mature team. It is up to the club now to make a choice, Mokotjo said. They will have to sell me now, or sell in the summer break. I m in the best shape of my life and ready to make a move. England would be perfect for me, but for me it is about the project. Any foreign club with a good plan is interesting. It is important that I challenge myself. I m 26 years old and I feel ready for it especially because of the experience I have picked up in the Dutch league. Mokotjo previously denied he was not forcing himself out of the team by missing camp and insisted he had a good relationship with his coach, Rene Hake. The Odendaalsrus-born player renounced his South African citizenship in favour of a Dutch passport in December and explained that as a European he could move to any club he wanted. His contract at Twente ends in mid- 2018 and the Dutch side are likely to make a good return on the investment they made when they paid PEC Zwolle a sum of about R20m for him in August 2014.Mokotjo joined Feyenoord from the SuperSport United youth development side in 2009 but spent time on loan at Excelsior, went back to Feyenoord, before moving to PEC Zwolle on a free transfer in July 2013. Meanwhile, Portuguese-based Bongani Zungu is expected to feature for Vitoria Guimaraes when they face Benfica in the Portuguese Cup final on May 28 in Lisbon.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za