Businesswoman, philanthropist, and wife to Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Noma or Mrs Gigabyte as she s fondly known, recently opened up about coping with her husband s widely reported cheating allegations.In a revealing television interview with eNCA, Noma shared details about the pressures of being a wife to the recently appointed finance minister.Having dealt with this dark past, Noma said she and her family were focused on their marriage, which came under social media spotlight when New York-based South African-born socialite Buhle Mkhize claimed that she and the minister had slept together more than once. Their feud came to a head when they publicly hurled insults at each other on social media more than a year ago. When this came out my husband did not know what to do because he was a public servant, plus he is a very private person. So I had to step in and control the situation and we worked on it, moved past it and I forgave him, because he is the man I made vows to, not anyone else. She said she chose to stand by her man despite pressure from the public to end her marriage. When this emerged we had just gotten married, we were on cloud nine and just came back from our honeymoon in Dubai. I told myself that this is my house and no one will take me out. Even 99% of people in South Africa believed that I must leave but I made the vows. I will leave on my own terms if I want to leave. And I told myself that I will fight for my husband on my own terms. The devoted mother has had to also pour water on speculation that she holds no substance without the minister s name. Many who have branded her as a gold-digging socialite were most likely not aware that the KZN-born beauty is an information technology graduate and specialist.She is big on charity and the brains behind the Noma Foundation which aims to keep disadvantaged girls in school.The interview prompted several social media users to applaud her for her strength and focus in keeping her family together despite her husband s busy schedule, her career and being a mother.Facebook user Motlatsi Motlatsi wrote: Was listening to an interview with Noma just now. Am so proud of her. A gal from the hood who made it big. It makes me so proud. She is another living example that a model s accent or schooling is not a requirement for success. Meanwhile, Twitter user@ThandekaMqadi wrote: Was watching an interview Noma Gigaba did. People don t understand what it takes to keep your family together and making them happy .The couple is one of SA s most stylish as they never let an opportunity of leading the well-dressed pack at government events. However, in light of the economic crisis following Moody s downgrade of South Africa, Noma reluctantly admitted that her extravagant displays on social media maybe somewhat insensitive and has vowed to tone it down a bit.NONTOKOZO GXUMISAnews@thenewage.co.za