PATIENTS, some in critical condition, spend as long as 13 hours waiting for treatment at public hospitals.The New Age team spent the night at the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital s casualty unit on Saturday and came face to face with the excruciating pain patients go through while awaiting medical attention at state hospitals.Patients with gunshot and stab wounds and those bleeding from car accidents sat groaning in pain on benches and on the floor of the casualty unit as the two doctors on duty failed to cope.During the overnight observation of the health service, the team witnessed Johannesburg resident Fortune Moyo spend the night in a wheelchair with a fractured ankle from a hit and run accident. The 28 year old was not given anything to ease his pain until yesterday morning as nurses repeatedly told him they prioritised patients with more critical illnesses and injuries. I had the most horrible night of my life. Imagine, I was run over by a car at 1pm on Saturday afternoon and only got attended to today (Sunday) at 11am.I sat in this wheelchair in pain all night waiting to be treated and with nothing to eat. I had hoped they would at least offer me something to ease the pain and then treat me within a reasonable amount of time, but I was given nothing, Moyo said.The New Age team met him at Hillbrow Clinic about 8pm on Saturday. He had to wait an hour and 30 minutes for an X-ray, which showed his ankle was fractured and he was then referred to Charlotte Maxeke Hospital.Hillbrow Clinic had about seven security guards and only two nurses attending to patients. Five guards could be heard taunting a man who was bleeding from stab wounds, saying he would die outside in the cold because he was ill-mannered.For Moyo, the struggle continued as there was no ambulance to take him to Charlotte Maxeke Hospital. His family had to drive him to the hospital just after 10pm where he still had to endure a 13-hour wait for painkillers and a cast. At 11.30pm on Saturday, his family were told he would likely be attended to after an hour. After exactly an hour we checked and we were told the hospital only had two doctors who would attend to him today at 11am, a family member said. Another patient, a middle-aged man whose face was bandaged, kept screaming please just give me one pill to stop the pain .The Gauteng department of health reacted with shock when informed of the conduct of staff. It doesn t make sense that he could have been in hospital without being attended to. We need to probe the matter, find out what transpired and what was the root cause, spokesperson Khutso Rabothata said.Public hospitals use a triage system under which patients are categorised according to the gravity of the condition they present with.Red sticker patients, who are critically ill, are made first priority and are seen before those with yellow and green stickers.TNA Reporter 