Hearings on the state of competition in the grocery retail sector began yesterday in Cape Town to probe consolidation of national supermarket chains and exclusive leases in malls and their effect on competition in the industry. The purpose of the market inquiry is to examine whether there are features or a combination of features in the grocery retail sector which prevent, distort or restrict competition. The five-day public hearings kicked off with testimonies from Gugulethu entrepreneurs representing MJ Group of Companies and Gugulethu Liquor Traders Association. The inquiry probes six major areas: the impact of the expansion, diversification and consolidation of national supermarket chains on small and independent retailers, the impact of long-term exclusive leases on competition in the sector, the dynamics of competition between local and foreign-owned small and independent retailers, the impact of regulations, including municipal town planning and bylaws on small and independent retailers, the impact of buyer groups on small and independent retailers and the impact of certain identified value chains on the operations of small and independent retailers. The four largest supermarket chains account for more than 90% of the market. These firms are able to operate as grocery anchor tenants in shopping centres and malls of various sizes. The movement of national supermarket chains into the townships, peri-urban and rural areas mainly through the construction of shopping centres has affected small, informal and independent retailers in a number of ways. Massmart recently brought forward a giant case against the big four retail stores to end exclusive leasing in shopping malls. The company initially lodged a formal complaint in 2015 with the Competition Commission to end the lease exclusivity clauses against grocers Pick n Pay, Spar and Shoprite. The clause restricted Massmart’s Game stores from opening new shops in malls where the clause is contested by other retail chains. The exclusive leases by Pick n Pay, Spar and Shoprite Checkers can last between five to 20 years. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za