The Mpumalanga house of traditional leaders has vowed to strengthen its relationship with various stakeholders in a bid to curb the deaths of youths at initiation schools.The stakeholders would include the departments of cooperative governance and traditional affairs, health, traditional leaders and law enforcement agencies.House of traditional leaders chairperson, chief Lameck Mokoena, made the promise following the deaths of four initiates, aged between 14 and 21, in a period of about a week after being admitted to Ndebele initiation schools.Two of the dead initiates were admitted to schools around Kwaggafontein and KwaMhlanga respectively. The other two were from schools in Emalahleni and Belfast.Six other initiates had to be admitted to the Middelburg Hospital last week due to complications but were later released. It was still unclear whether the initiates could have been killed as a result of negligence including botched circumcision and dehydration, like the 31 initiates killed in 2013.Mokoena called on initiation school owners to comply with the Ingoma Act of 2011, which among others regulates the running of an initiation school, duration for keeping initiates at the school and regulateds fees. We are deeply shocked at the unfortunate death of the initiates. We convey our heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased, Mokoena said. Investigations are under way to determine the cause and action will be taken against responsible owners of the affected initiation schools if found that the deaths resulted from negligence at their initiation schools. Provincial police spokesperson Brig Leonard Hlathi said the police were concerned about initiate deaths. He said the circumstances which led to the deaths of the initiates were under investigation. All the four initiates, aged between 14 and 21, had complications that led to their deaths and a probe is under way. A preliminary investigation discovered that one of the victims was 14 year s old. In terms of the Mpumalanga Ingoma Act of 2011, no person under the age of 16 may be admitted to initiation school, Hlathi said. The circumstances under which he was admitted or accepted at that institution is a subject for investigation because the act also states that a minor may not attend an Ingoma (initiation school) without his parents or legal guardian s consent. FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za