A young woman from Delareyville was among 50 young people chosen for their exceptional talent to represent the country at the recent World Economic Forum (WEF) on Africa in Durban.Priscilla Menoe is an ambitious woman working as a team leader in the finance department at Hogan Lovells, a leading law firm with global appeal and 25 offices worldwide.She was invited to the WEF as part of the Global Shaper s Community, a network of hubs developed and led by young people with exceptional potential.Menoe shared her experiences on the WEF, the challenges facing Africa and how the youth can actively take part in shaping the economy of the continent.She said the forum s main aims were to bring together public and private stakeholders to a safe space of open, respectful dialogue. In this sense, WEF is useful to the continent as it brings together statesmen, businessmen, social entrepreneurs and young leaders of all 54 countries to share ideas and critically evaluate themselves on a African and global scale, Menoe said.She said the WEF is a necessary platform that is key in the quest for development of many countries. An organisation such as WEF is needed because it is impartial. Many people from around the world feel it is a safe space to speak their minds and share ideas. It gives the global youth a voice. We are the young generation to make Africa a continent strongly competing on a global scale and WEF gives an opportunity to the youth to meet and share ideas with business leaders and statesmen alike. Menoe said she was proud that Africans were rising proudly and unapologetically on the world stage. I have also realised that as the youth, instead of always pointing out the wrongs of our leaders, we should get involved in their programmes and engage them respectfully to propel us forward in ensuring responsive and responsible leadership. We need our leaders to realise that as the future of our countries, we should be given a platform to constructively criticise strategies put in place in a time where globalisation was not as rife as it is now. We can play a critical role in reviving our economies. If not us, then who? If not now, then when? Community involvement was also cited as one critical area for the development of the African economy and this is coupled with the responsibility to ensure all children are in school and that entrepreneurship should be used to create employment.Menoe said each country has its obstacles but collectively the continent should work together to overcome them.Above all, Menoe said it is imperative to espouse ubuntu ideals: In keeping up with the globe, let us not forget who we are as Africans. I am because we are. Newsnote-NTHUSANG LEFAFA