CR17, the dubbing of deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa s presidential campaign, is in full swing.Yesterday, Ramaphosa blitzed the Eastern Cape again when he addressed students at Rhodes University in Grahamstown. While his visit to the Eastern Cape was punted by the ANC as part of its Cadres Forum programme, it is being widely viewed as a strategy for him to get closer to the ANC s grassroots.Last week he was in KZN, where he led the ANC s by-election campaign in Nquthu, and joined thousands of congregants of the Nazareth Baptist Church to celebrate the life and times of its founder leader, prophet Isaiah Shembe in Empangeni. Building on his anti-corruption and state capture theme that has became his rallying call, Ramaphosa urged students in particular to play their role in transforming the economy and protecting it from being captured in the future. At the national policy conference, the ANC will come up with policies that are well attuned to the challenges of the time. As we transform this economy, we must ensure that you are able to play a key role. It s unacceptable that there is still exclusion. You must help enrich the debate about economic transformation. Our people must earn the democratic dividend that they fought for. We cannot betray our forebears and hand over the wealth of our country to certain individuals so that they can make it their own. As those who stand to inherit this country, raise your voices, claim your space now, don t wait for tomorrow, Ramaphosa said.He also urged students to take responsibility for the country s freedom. There are stories that the national democratic revolution is being derailed. Students have a responsibility to free us. Where we may seem to have been captured by other forces who have other intentions, it is your task to reclaim our South Africa. A generation must choose to advance or betray that mission. The future beckons and as we make room, we must leave you with a country that is corruption free, fully functional and not captured, Ramaphosa said.He also said the country s institutions of higher learning had a critical role to play in economic transformation and the voice of young people must be heard. We have to ask ourselves: what do the #FeesMustFall and decolonisation movements symbolise? We must listen to one another.We must listen to their cries. We have to ask ourselves if our universities are a new form of exclusion. Those who get the opportunity to study still live in horrid conditions of squalor and they are treated unequally. Young people demand to be treated as moral agents who have a claim to prosperity. We are required to listen closely to them, he said.On Friday, Ramaphosa told the media at the closing of the World Forum on Africa in Durban that the issue of leadership in the ANC is a matter that is going to be determined by the branches of the ANC. Those branches are going to have their say in December.So watch this space, wait until December and the members of the ANC will say who they want to be their leader. TNA REPORTERnews@thenewage.co.za