His predecessor Fikile Mbalula had yet to rescind the ban imposed on the South African Rugby Union (Saru) when he left office last month, but new Sports Minister Thulas Nxesi has hinted that the federation could go ahead with its bid to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup.Mbalula, now the police minister, switched portfolios last month, having revoked the privileges of Athletics South Africa, Cricket South Africa, Netball South Africa and Saru to host or bid to stage any major international events. This had been the result of the four major sporting federations failure to meet their transformation targets. His decision was is in line with the recommendations from the Eminent Persons Group on transformation in sport. I will review this decision when considering the results of the 2016-17 Transformation Barometer, Mbalula said about a year ago. Rugby will not be in a position to host mega events in terms of the Springboks when it relates to the World Cup hosting that involves everything. If it s international, we will not support it. If they are able to correct their errors that will be good, but if they are not, the punishment increases, Mbalula said But Nxesi gave the strongest hint yet that the country could host the 2023 World Cup, whose rights are also being vied for by France and Ireland.Nxesi said the hosting of the World Cup in 2023 could make a huge impact on the country and leave a good legacy, much like the 2010 Fifa World Cup. If I were to draw on my experiences from the Soccer World Cup in 2010, in terms of nation building we saw both black and white in the stands supporting Bafana Bafana and enjoying the football, Nxesi said. The legacy of that tournament, among black and white, is very important. A big part of that legacy is the stadiums that were built, which means that we have the necessary infrastructure in place already and we don t have to start from scratch. It means the hosting costs would be seriously reduced and I believe that the hosting of the Rugby World Cup can also leave a huge legacy and make a big impact, just like football did. Nxesi met with the Saru leadership, including president Mark Alexander at the Saru headquarters in Cape Town on Tuesday and vowed to prioritise sports development in his new position. I am very passionate about development and was interested to hear what SA Rugby development programmes entails in the schools, because that s where the youth are, he said.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za