The New Age crew boarded an early morning Naledi, Soweto train last Wednesday and came face to face with the harsh reality of criminal elements passengers face daily. The immediate observation is that Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) is unable to control access to stations.Criminals appear to be able to access stations easily, either through the ticket gates or from platforms. There is a lack of visible policing on platforms and inadequate security to offer safety to about 1.7m passengers that use the Metrorail every day. The crew went in with a fairly big camera wrapped in a jacket and was able to pass through the ticket gates and onto the train without any checks.Most of the security cameras at the Park Station have the lenses covered with dirt and are clearly not maintained. The team had initially bought tickets to Orlando, Soweto, but after a long wait went to another platform to jump onto a Naledi train. Again, tickets were not checked. Throughout the whole trip, which lasted an hour and 15 minutes, there was no security guard in sight.The train had about 15 people on board with little activity inside. Upon reaching the final station in Naledi, the crew sat in the train for 35 minutes before the train made its way back to Park Station with about 20 commuters. Part of that group immediately occupied their corner and seemed to know each other fairly well. In no time, they started smoking marijuana in open view of other commuters. This happens quite a lot, everyone minds their own business because you could be attacked if you voice your concerns. At least the doors are always open. It would be bad if the doors were shut, a commuter responded after this reporter made a remark about the dagga smoking.Not too far from the group that was smoking was a group of school kids exposed to the free flow of drugs on the train. The five teenagers also minded their business and could be heard discussing an English class presentation that was to take place on the day. As more people got onto the train, the group that was smoking marijuana grew bigger and occupied their own corner. A young male in the group seemed to be the supplier as he was seen exchanging marijuana for money with another commuter.The two seemed cocksure about their transaction as if they were selling sweets. As the train filled up with more commuters, a vendor paced up and down the coaches selling various items like biscuits, peanuts and rolls. Upon arrival at Park Station, the crew disembarked and went to the exit ticket gate.-MTHOKOZISI DUBE|mtokozisid@thenewage.co.za