Merafe hostel dwellers in Soweto went on a two-day protest since Saturday when they vandalised a nearby shopping centre and also set some of the shops alight.The protest was due to the shortage of electricity the hostel has been experiencing for two days.Capt Mpande Khoza said the Merafe hostel residents went on a protest and barricaded the streets, as well as the main road that leads to Merafe railway station.He said the residents went to the nearest shops where they vandalised the stores and burnt some of them. On Saturday they went on to vandalise the community houses due to the shortage of electricity. Yesterday morning again they came out blocking the roads, which made the community of Mapetla also come out and retaliate. There was a confrontation between the two groups but police managed to separate them, Khoza said.He said the community of Mapetla said that they also did not have electricity for three weeks but they never went to the hostel to vandalise their property. Police are monitoring the area and things have returned to normal. We hope that Eskom and City Power will restore the power so that things can go back to how they were, he said.Twenty people were arrested during the protests on charges of public violence and they was expected to appear today in the Protea Magistrate s Court.Residents of Mapetla posted on social media about the sound of gunshots that took place yesterday morning during the confrontation between hostel dwellers and the community.Khoza said the gunshots were allegedly fired by the hostel dwellers but could not confirm.A Facebook user identifying himself as George Lechalaba said the hostel dwellers broke windows at his house and those of his neighbours. They damaged cars, they took food from old ladies trying to feed their families all because of a shortage of electricity. Police are not acting as fast as they should. Innocent people are getting hurt, Lechalaba said.Another Facebook user identified as Max Maxito said: Merafe Hostel is at war. They are firing gunshots because they took their electricity away and they are looking for our councillor. We fear for our lives. There have been sporadic service delivery protests in Gauteng in recent weeks.This comes after a violent protest in Eldorado Park last week spread to Enerdale, Orange Farm, Finetown and Klipspruit West.The recent protests range from demands for service delivery and for land to dissatisfaction withhigh crime rates.Those protesting have vowed to continue until their demands are met.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAnews@thenewage.co.za