New bank on the block Capitec continues to outperform its older peers, having just knocked First National Bank off the perch as top bank in the digital banking category.The sixth annual internet banking SITEisfaction survey conducted by insights agency Columinate and released yesterday also rated Capitec tops in the mobile banking category. FNB beat the newcomer by a nose 0.8 percentage points to hold on to the top position in the internet banking category. Launched in 2012, Columinate s SITEisfaction survey is a measure of customer satisfaction with digital banking services in SA. Last year a new category called best digital bank was incorporated, with FNB crowned the winner.However, Capitec is this year s winner with 81 out of 100. Francois Viviers, marketing executive at Capitec, said, Our aim has always been to design smart, simple and easy to use digital solutions. We re excited and grateful to our clients for scoring us so highly, securing our position as South Africa s best digital bank in 2017. FNB scored marginally lower than Capitec in the digital banking category, and came in a close second (79/100); miles ahead of Nedbank and Standard Bank, which were tied for third place with a paltry 61 points. Absa, which enjoyed significant improvements over the course of last year, still trails the field with 55 points. Elna Pretorius, co-founder and director of Columinate, said: From a digital perspective, Capitec has always been a strong challenger to FNB and its efforts have finally paid off this year as its customers rated their satisfaction of the bank s service offering higher than that of its competitors. Standard Bank has experienced some fluctuations in digital banking levels in the past three years due to various redesigns and service outages, while Nedbank has yet to shift the needle, as the bank continues to offer a middle of the road solution and experience, according to its customers. A holistic look at all the mobile banking solutions banks offer, from mobile applications to mobi-sites for both mobile phones and tablets was also undertaken.Capitec scored 83 points out of a possible 100, up from last year s score of 72. FNB secured silver with a respectable score of 80/100. Nedbank enjoyed a spike in mobile banking satisfaction levels, placing third with a score of 71/100, up from 66/100 in 2016. Standard Bank missed the podium finish after replicating 2016 s results, scoring 70/100 for the second consecutive year.While the industry experienced overall improvement, Absa customers seem to be the exception that proves the rule, scoring the bank five points lower from last year, taking fifth place in 2017 with 65/100.-SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za