The ANC in the Western Cape is to approach the auditor-general to investigate a recent questionable trip to Singapore by Helen Zille.And, said ANC chief whip in the legislature, Pierre Uys, yesterday, the party could well end up also asking public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane to launch a probe as well. Questioned by Uys in the legislature last Friday, Western Cape Premier Zille s answers revealed that the taxpayer had paid more than R1.1m for the trip.Three officials from her department, as well as her husband, Johann Maree, accompanied Zille on a journey, which a spokesperson said the department of international relations had not been involved with at all.Uys said yesterday Zille had told the legislature that an amount of R636 159 was apparently spent on travel, accommodation and other costs. An additional R500000 was transferred from Zille s department to the provincial government economic development entity, Wesgrow. Uys said: Wesgro is responsible for economic development and not the premier.Why was it necessary for money to be transferred to Wesgro? If Wesgro needs money, it should get it from Western Cape MEC for economic development Alan Winde and not from Premier Zille. He said: And if the trip to Singapore was really to look at economic opportunities why was Winde not part of Premier Zille s delegation? It all sounds very strange. Uys said he also understood that Zille had looked at security matters, which he found puzzling, in Singapore. Uys said that the ANC would not stop looking for answers and would pose follow-up questions to Zille in the legislature. I really want to know why her department did not pay directly? What are they trying to hide? Was this just a holiday? We need answers. He said the ANC would request the auditor-general to probe Zille s visit to Singapore. And if we are still not satisfied with the answers we will also ask the public protector to investigate. The trip to Singapore has visited controversies on Zille. While returning home to Cape Town she released social media messages that were complimentary about colonialism.These messages have earned her sharp criticism from many quarters, including a rebuke from her party leader Mmusi Maimane, as well as a forthcoming disciplinary hearing. The latest outcome is last Friday s exchange in the legislature.dennisc@thenewage.co.za