A senior member of Parliament has accused the leader of Black First Land First of racial abuse and of threatening to assault him.Former Cabinet minister Yunus Carrim, who chairs the Joint Standing Committee on Finance, made this accusation against Andile Mngxitama yesterday. Earlier in the day, the two were involved in a heated confrontation at a hearing on the Transformation of the Financial Sector.They almost came to blows and were separated by MPs while the police were also called in. Giving his version of what had happened Carrim said civil society organisations and members of the public must be allowed to speak freely at hearings. They should also be allowed to criticise MPs. This is after all their Parliament and we have to listen to them. He had approached Mngxitama after he had called the co-chairperson Joan Fubbs a fascist and was constantly abusive. He wanted to persuade him to leave the hearing, Carrim said, of what he called an unfortunate incident. But he threatened to assault me and was racially abusive. He also said: We got rid of Pravin, now we are going to get rid of you , Carrim said.Mngxitama, he said, simply refused to leave. When I asked him to apologise to Ms Fubbs he became very disruptive and refused to let the hearings continue, hurling abuse at me too. He was asked to leave the hearings as his time to speak had ended anyway but he refused to do so.It s unprecedented behaviour. It seemed to me that he had come to have a showdown with us, not to engage with the committees. In the midst of his sloganising, Mngxitama had made some concrete recommendations that the committees will seriously consider, Carrim said.The Joint Committee subsequently condemned Mngxitama s behaviour as disgraceful , but re-committed itself to encouraging robust public hearings and active public participation.Mngxitama defended his conduct and said that Carrim s conduct was unacceptable . We presented an argument to destroy white monopoly capital. The chairperson lost it because we offended white capital, Mngxitama said.In his presentation, Mngxitama called for the destruction of white monopoly capital. He also accused the ANC of not supporting President Jacob Zuma in his call for the expropriation of land without compensation.In what he called the Malikane Proposals, Mngxitama called on Parliament to create a new national economic plan.This was to be based on the ideology of radical economic transformation as espoused by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba s adviser and former trade unionist Prof Chris Malikane.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za