Miss United Countries SA Princess Mahlangu is confident she will bring the crown home when she represents South Africa in Malaysia in July.The 23-year-old beauty queen knows it won t be an easy ride competing against the world s best, but she believes she has what it takes to win. Representing the country is not an easy task as it needs hard work and positivity. I will always bear this in mind. I am the pride of the nation therefore we cannot be beaten by the world, we have to show them we have talent, Mahlangu said.The QwaQwa-born young lady, who lives and works in Bloemfontein, said she never thought the world of beauty pageants would take her this far.Her biggest dream growing up had always been to be a finalist in the Miss South Africa pageant. I also wanted to be a physiotherapist because I believed not everyone could be a beauty queen. I thought there was a limited opportunity in the beauty pageant profession, Mahlangu said.She said being positive is an essential element in the face of difficulties.Her journey began in 2008, when she first entered a pageant at her former high school where she was crowned Miss Mampoi High School 2008. At tertiary level, while studying at Central University of Technology (CUT) in Bloemfontein, I entered the pageant and I was crowned Miss CUT 2011, Mahlangu said.That was the first pageant that introduced to her the responsibilities of life and also made her realise her skill at organising events and working with different charities. I further went on to assist others in the province and created a beauty pageant called Mr and Miss Carnival, which is still going strong today, although I have not been part of it for more than five years. In 2012, I continued to further my engagements in the pageant world. In 2012, she finished in the top 10 of the Face of Beija Beija contest, a well-known jewellery shop in Bloemfontein that sells imported jewellery from Brazil. She continued to work with local designers that hosted fashion shows and was also a ramp model. I was also crowned the 2012 queen of the year during the Miss Mamelodi Sundowns beauty pageant while also representing the Free State in Pretoria. I was also crowned Miss Glamorous Free State in 2015 and I am the Miss United Countries SA title holder, Mahlangu said, adding that this is her passion more than a talent.She said her biggest dream is to one day build a shelter to equip the less fortunate with business and life skills.BECKER SEMELAbeckers@thenewage.co.za