Sunderland midfielder Steven Pienaar has dropped the strongest hint he may return home and play in the PSL before he retires after 18 years. The crocked player hasn t enjoyed himself in his season-long stint with the English Premiership side relegated last week.Speaking to Sky Sports, Pienaar said: I think I ve still got a year left in me, but with all of the injuries that I ve had over the last two years, I don t think my body can take much more. I want to finish my career where it all started, which is back home. If I do get the opportunity, I ll take it with open arms. Pienaar was linked with Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates when his contract with Everton ended last season. But he accepted an offer to join Sunderland.At 35, Pienaar may no longer be the player who won 61 international caps and more than 200 caps in the Premiership and may look to return to his alma mater, Ajax Cape Town. He has admitted relegation has been a blot on his career. This is my first relegation and it is the hardest thing to take in my career. We ve let so many people down, the club, the supporters, people who support you. It s been a dark few weeks, we ve let the manager down, he s getting all of the blame for it. Meanwhile, Kamohelo Mokotjo is still looking to pursue a move from FC Twente side. Mokotjo played a full 90 minutes and captained the Dutch side in their 1-0 loss to Sparta Rotterdam, defeat which has now put them under pressure to beat Groningen in the final round of matches to secure a place in the Uefa Europa League playoffs. Elsewhere, Bongani Zungu featured for Vitoria Guimaraes as the side recorded a 1-0 win over Arouca to secure a Europa League spot for next season.Andile Jali s gradual return to the starting line-up for KV Oostende continued as he played for a full 90 minutes in their 4-3 victory over Gent. In France, Keagan Dolly was an unused substitute when Montpellier lost 1-0 to Rennes while May Mahlangu completed 90 minutes for Dinamo Bucharesti in their 3-0 win over CFR Cluj in the Romanian premier league.-KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za