Older men do not undergo voluntary medical male circumcision as frequently as younger men, despite them being the main drivers of the HIV pandemic.That s according to Hilton Julius, VMMC programme manager for CareWorks, an HIV management organisation.Voluntary medical male circumcision reduces the risk of HIV, sexually transmitted diseased and urinary tract infections, and penile and prostate cancer.Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among South African men.According to Julius, there are a number of reasons why older men are reluctant to undergo voluntary medical male circumcision. While younger men are increasingly seeing circumcision as a social norm, older men fear ridicule, since it s culturally considered most appropriate before adolescence.Another barrier is that their perceived risk of contracting HIV and other STIs is lower because of their age and that they re in a protective marriage or partnership. Concerns about the post-surgical abstinence period of six weeks has also led to low uptake among older men, Julius said.South Africa has a high rate of HIV infections among young girls aged 16 to 24, with the infection rate blamed on the sugar daddy phenomenon. Furthermore, older men are in part to blame for SA s high HIV infection rate among young women. The findings of a study, which was released last year by the Centre for the Aids Programme of Research in SA, confirmed that the cycle of HIV transmission was driven by high rates of new HIV infections in adolescent girls by older men. Many of these men were also partners of similarly aged women who have HIV prevalence rates exceeding 60%. This sets in motion a deadly cycle, Julius said.Julius said older men should consider undergoing voluntary medical male circumcision. The health benefits of medical male circumcision far outweigh the risks. Older men should seriously reconsider their reasons for not wanting to circumcise, since there is ample clinical evidence which points to its medical benefits. Most women should support VMMC, especially since it reduces their risk of acquiring the human papilloma virus, which is responsible for most cervical cancer cases, Julius said.It is estimated that about 380000 new HIV infections occur in young girls and women aged 16 to 24 each year in southern and eastern Africa. 701478-TNA REPORTER