Irate members of Parliament (MPs) called on the interim SABC board to take disciplinary action against acting CEO James Aguma for misleading Parliament.Aguma was not part of an SABC delegation in Parliament for a meeting with the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) yesterday.He was apparently ill and had been booked off work until Monday.General executive for technology Tsheliso Ralitabo was acting in his position for the time being.Scopa members wanted to know where Aguma was because they felt he would be better placed than members of the interim board to answer questions. We don t take kindly to this. It seems the acting CEO is not prepared to cooperate with Scopa. Where is Mr Aguma, because we really need him? ANC chief whip Nyami Booi asked.DA MP David Ross was also disturbed that Aguma wasn t present. I believe there is a total disregard for Scopa, for what were trying to achieve. I believe we should take very serious action in this regard. I think he is instrumental for the total collapse of governance, Ross said.Some Scopa members wanted to postpone the meeting but new Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo urged them to continue. The board, which is the accounting authority is seized with a lot of work at the SABC. My humble plea is that we continue with the hearing today. This session will also give you a bit more information than you had in the last meeting with the SABC, Dlodlo said.Dlodlo said she arrived at the SABC on Monday to prepare for yesterday s sitting and Aguma wasn t there. I was told he was not well. Shedding more light on the matter, SABC board deputy chair Mathatha Tsedu said Hlaudi Motsoeneng was scheduled to have appeared in a disciplinary hearing yesterday.He said: Mr Aguma has not been at work at the very least since Monday. We have not been told he will not be around until Monday next week. Yesterday, as part of preparing for the disciplinary hearing, we got correspondence from Mr Motsoeneng s attorneys, which included an affidavit deposed by Mr Aguma in which he alleges that he gave Mr Motsoeneng permission to hold the press conference and also that there was not a board decision to charge Mr Motsoeneng. Tsedu said Aguma was present when the interim board resolved to institute a disciplinary hearing. We resolved formally we would appoint an independent lawyer. We went around asking each board member s views. Each answer was recorded. Mr Aguma s response was also recorded. DA MP Tim Brauteseth said when Aguma was in a parliamentary committee meeting last week, he told the committee he did not authorise the press conference held by Motsoeneng. He lied to Parliament. This is a criminal act. The man must be suspended from his duties on this specific issue. We have more than enough evidence. He must appear in front of a disciplinary committee. Frankly, given his appearance last week, he may even appear in court, Brauteseth said.Dlodlo said she would not call for the suspension of any staff member in a public forum.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za