South Africa was the third most vulnerable country in the world for cyber attacks and the most vulnerable in Africa, Roy Wright, head: of risk solutions at leading financial advisory and wealth management business GTC Holdings, said.The majority of businesses in South Africa were aware of the risks of cybercrime but very few had adequate , if any, cover to protect their organisations in the event of a cyber-attack. Wright said this was revealed in a report by AT Kearney, a global management consulting firm. Cyber security is a real business risk that can affect a company of any size anywhere in the world, but too few local companies are taking steps to insure their organisations against this risk, Wright said.Grant Thornton s recent International Business Report on cyber security revealed 88% of businesses in SA had identified exactly where all their data and information resided within the organisations. This showed businesses were aware of the need for cyber security but Wright said this was not enough. Cybercrime is a modern threat that requires new thinking and solutions for the risks it adds to a business operations. Traditional insurance policies provide cover for physical threats, but not the intangible losses caused by cyber-crime. A cyber attack could manifest as either a data breach by criminals hacking into a company s systems and obtaining information, or through ransomware, which involved the theft of a business data in exchange for monetary compensation. The WannaCry ransomware attack earlier this month was a case in point. The attack locked up hundreds of thousands of computers in more than 150 countries and affected factories, hospitals, schools and shops globally. In both cases of cyber-attack, companies would face several costs, including investigation costs to ascertain where and how the system became vulnerable; restoration costs to fix the system; and loss of income due to not being able to operate, Wright said. The Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services (Fais) Act stipulates that financial advisers are required to have a full understanding of clients needs. Wright said before any recommendations could be made regarding appropriate cover, advisers needed to be authoritative on the insurance products and regulations available. They must also be knowledgeable as to a client s specific industry, electronic data and cyber cover requirements. In addition to the losses, companies ran the risk that their own clients could be compromised through any cyber attack. This could result in serious liability claims against a company.-SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za