While hundreds of exiled Zimbabweans marched in Durban against their president, Robert Mugabe told a panel discussion at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Africa that his country was not a fragile state . It is one of the most highly developed countries, second after South Africa, he said.Mugabe and his party have blamed Western powers for his country s problems. This year, we will have a bumper harvest. Not just maize, we have cotton and tobacco, we are not a poor country, Mugabe said.But on the streets, Zimbabweans living in South Africa demanded that Mugabe, 93, step down, claiming his disastrous policies had plunged Zimbabwe into economic and political crisis.African nationals, mainly South Africans, Congolese and Nigerians also joined the anti Mugabe march. Bring back our economy, we want to go back home read some of the placards while another was emblazoned: Mugabe, stop quenching your thirst with our tears. I m surprised that Mugabe is addressing the WEF as if he has any economy left in his own country. I don t understand why a nonagenarian, who is presiding over a country with an 80% unemployment rate can attend an economic forum, Zimbabwean activist Sly Dube said.About 3 million Zimbabweans are said to have fled their country because of political instability and economic problems that have bedevilled the country for nearly two decades. Zimbabweans are hard working, educated, honest and peace loving people. They helped us during apartheid times so it is our duty as South Africans to stand up with them and tell Grandpa Mugabe to go, Mike Nxumalo from Newcastle said. But some locals harboured negative feelings. They are economic refugees, they use fake names and identity documents here, they must go back to Zimbabwe and vote wisely, a South African passer-by said.Pierre Wemba, from the Democratic Republic of Congo, said he understood the aggravation of being called kwerekwere in a foreign country, hence he supported protests against leaders who cling to power and cause citizens to flee their motherland.KwaZulu-Natal Solidarity Movement s Liberty Kwanisai said: If Africans are helping us demonstrate, Zimbabweans must grab the dying bull by its shaking horns. with Reuters.