Millions in royalty payments to artists remain unpaid by the SABC, the broadcaster revealed to Parliament today.The Standing Committee on Public Accounts (scopa) heard that the SABC had last paid royalties to artists in December.It was revealed that the broadcasters owed royalties to organisations which include the Southern African Music Rights Organisation (Samro), R14.5 m; the SA Music Performance Rights Association (Sampra), R52.7m; the Association of Independent Record Companies (ARIC), R2.8m; and the Composers Authors and Publishers Association (Capasso), R3m.The standing committee heard that it was envisioned that the implementation of the 90% local content policy would result in local artists becoming the ultimate beneficiaries. But as it turned out, the SABC has been financially crippled by the policy.Responding to claims of non-payments, the SABC said it would pay the Metro FM award winners. This follows an outcry by the artists. They claimed that they had yet to be paid for their awards in Durban earlier in the year.&#8220;The challenge was verification of documentation so that they could be paid and we have reconciled that. We had to deal with our own challenges of funding. We expect that by the end of this month the Metro FM recipients will be paid,&#8221; acting chief financial officer, Audrey Raphele said.Addressing the committee, Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo said the artists had complained to her about the non-payment of royalties.&#8220;I had a meeting with the artists and many of them were complaining about the 90% policy. The board will come back at a later stage to report back to members on their findings,&#8221; Dlodlo said, reiterating that the 90% policy was not a directive from the ANC.&#8220;From the party I come from there is no 90% local content (policy). But the burden of growing and development of artists shouldn&#8217;t be the sole responsibility of the SABC. Small business and the arts and culture department should also intervene, she said.Deputy SABC interim board chairperson Mathatha Tsedu added that that the 90% policy should not be implemented to the detriment of the broadcaster.&#8220;We are looking at taking back detrimental consequences of some decisions. We are looking at the 90% which saw both the television and radio losing millions. The 90% content policy cannot really be said to be a policy as it was never debated,&#8221; Tsedu said.-TNA Reporter