South African Film and TV Awards (Safta) winner, actress Salamina Mosese, is proving to be a world class South African and a good ambassador for women.This highly accomplished, but down to earth actress, model, TV presenter and businessperson will represent South Africa among the continent s best young leaders as part of the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders, which begins in June.Mosese was chosen from 64 000 applicants and forms part of the 1000 successful African candidates. She will jet to Washington in June, where she will begin her three month fellowship until August. The actress described the fellowship as a wonderful opportunity for her career as an actress, director, producer, mother and businessperson. Such opportunities are a lifetime chance to make your mark in the world. I cannot wait to leave for the US and be in the same room with thousands of other influential leaders, Mosese said.The married mother and actress said being away from her family would probably be the hardest part of the fellowship, but maintained that it will all be worth it. It s never easy being away from my family. They are very important to me, but what s more important is for me to build a generational legacy for them. Mosese recently graduated with a postgraduate diploma in business management. She holds a corporate communications degree that came after the launch of her digital TV channel, Aza TV, which she co-owns with actress and fellow child star Stephina Zwane.The Mandela Washington Fellowship is an initiative that will see about 40 US universities hosting 1000 young leaders from sub-Saharan Africa for institutes focused on public management, business and entrepreneurship as well as civic leadership. Those chosen will be afforded an opportunity to hone their skills at a US higher education institution with support for professional development when they return home. This means I will be able to put my business on the map, share ideas and network with other entrepreneurs in the continent. I m very excited. Mosese is, among other things, best known for taking over the role of drama lecturer Keketso Chaka from Katlego Danke on the e.tv soapie Backstage from April 2006 to June 2007. Born in Zebediela, a small village in Limpopo, Salamina got into acting by accident when she took her brother for an audition. She was asked to audition and landed a part.She received a matric exemption with distinctions in English, Afrikaans and history and later studied corporate communications at the University of Johannesburg.She was a presenter on e.tv s kids programming block CRAZe, for five years and also acted on the SABC 1 youth drama series Soul Buddyz from 1999-2002. In 2008, she won the Top Billing presenter search and began presenting the show in the same year. Other TV shows she appeared in include Soul City, Justice for All and the international feature film Beat the Drum. She also played the lead role of Tumi in the short film The Ring.In 2007, she presented the game show Crazy Games on SABC2 and the reality show Top Class on SABC1. In 2008, she was the face of two Nedbank game shows on SABC3 and e.tv.As a model, she has appeared in advertising campaigns for the Lotto, Comporal and McDonald s, among others. She was also the face of Sadie, a rollon brand that was purchased by L Oreal in 2007.In 2011, she landed the starring role of Ella, a domestic worker who believes in fairy tale love and that her knight in shining armour is going to ride in any day, in the SABC1 sitcom Abo Mzala. In 2014, she replaced Thabo Mdluli as the host of the SABC2 gospel reality competition I Want to Sing Gospel.NONTOKOZO GXUMISAnews@thenewage.co.za