It was with regret and concern that Minister of Trade and Industry Rob Davis realised the news from General Motors SA that the American motor manufacturer would cease some of its operations in South Africa.This after GMSA and Isuzu Motors announced their future plans for the Isuzu, Chevrolet and Opel brands in the country.Isuzu intends to purchase GM s South African light commercial vehicle manufacturing operations and thereby strengthen its presence in the market.GM intends to cease the local manufacturing and sales of Chevrolet vehicles in the domestic market by the end of the year. After a thorough assessment of our South African operations, we believe it is best for Isuzu to integrate our light commercial vehicle manufacturing operations into its African business, Stefan Jacoby, GM executive vice-president and president of GM International, said. We determined that continued or increased investment in manufacturing in South Africa would not provide GM the expected returns of other global investment opportunities. Davies said while it is regrettable to see General Motors exit South Africa, market performance leading to cuts in profitability coupled with recent global initiatives had created the conditions to make such a move likely. Although we do not welcome this decision, we believe that the future of the industry is positive as motor industry stakeholders are finalising a master plan for South Africa. This with a view to growing domestic vehicle production volume and local value addition. He said an announcement on the final programme could be expected early next year, which will cover the period after 2020.He said the department would continue to work with all stakeholders to mitigate the impact of GM s exit.These initiatives include encouraging the strengthening of the presence, including vehicle assembly, of Isuzu which has been partnering GMSA in South Africa.GM employs 1 500 South Africans at its plant in Port Elizabeth and their livelihoods are under threat. GM South Africa president and MD Ian Nicholls said: These decisions were not made lightly. We appreciate the support that our employees, customers, dealers, suppliers, the government and other key stakeholders have given us over the many years that we have operated in this country. We will manage the transition as smoothly as possible. GMSA informed employees and unions of the announcements.The company has established support centres for employees. It said it would also work closely with affected dealers on a robust transition plan.Customer support centre resources will be expanded and all warranties and service agreements as well as ongoing service and parts requirements for all vehicles will continue to be honoured. We are committed to the South African market, Haruyasu Tanishige, senior executive officer for the sales division of Isuzu Motors, said. The integration of our light commercial and medium and heavy-duty commercial business will strengthen our base to grow here. We will do this through our focus on providing outstanding after sales and customer support, establishing close relationships with our local partners and expanding our business. Davies expressed confidence that recent announced investments in Coega should save jobs in vehicle production in the Nelson Mandela Bay metropolitan area, and that anticipated investments and localisation by the remaining vehicle producers will have a positive effect.DA MP Geordin Hill-Lewis, shadow minister of trade and industry, said GM s announcement was a major vote of no confidence in the government s leadership of the economy.sellor@thenewage.co.za