President Jacob Zuma has been accused of first destroying the ANC and now of doing the same with South Africa.This accusation was flung at the president during his budget debate in Parliament yesterday by the leader of the opposition, Mmusi Maimane, who vowed the DA would not allow him to succeed.In an acrimonious time on his feet while replying to President Zuma, Maimane was forced to withdraw a remark about president Gupta. This accusation briefly held up business in the National Assembly as both the ANC and DA engaged one another.One ANC member referred to DA chief whip John Steenhuisen as a white boy and had to apologise.Steenhuisen was also involved in a spat with speaker Baleka Mbete. She said she did not question that he was a honourable member but said he did not always say honourable things.Steenhuisen said that Mbete was a dishonourable speaker who should be thrown out of the house by the white shirts (Parliament s security personnel).Mbete said: Honourable Steenhuisen you should go for anger management. Steenhuisen replied: If I need to go for anger management you need some serious issues of psychiatry. Maimane told the house how he grew up like many South Africans believing in the ANC as the party of liberation. It was the party of my parents. The party that turned this country around. After 1994 the ANC made life better for millions of South Africans. In those days the ANC truly was the party of and for the people. But that did not last. I could not have imagined that the party that liberated us could end up captured and corrupted, Maimane said.Every single time the ANC mentioned OR Tambo you remind us how far the ANC has fallen. It pains me to say that the ANC of Oliver Tambo doesn t exist anymore .Asking what has happened, he said: This has happened. This president, this man happened. He killed the ANC. The ANC was wounded before he plunged the knife in, Maimane said. He struck the final blow. He wiped out Oliver Tambo s legacy to make himself rich. First he killed the ANC and now he is killing our country. He said: We cannot ignore the fact that the president of the Republic has made a crooked deal with a crooked family and now they own him. If it voted for the president s budget the DA would support a budget for a mafia schedule state. This is a budget for president Gupta. Keep that in mind when you cast your vote. He accused the ANC of failing to support several motions of no confidence in President Zuma, and also of failing to get rid of him last weekend.DENNIS CRUYWAGENdennisc@thenewage.co.za