The Speaker of Parliament has declared that a commission of inquiry could eventually be appointed to investigate allegations of state capture.Baleka Mbete yesterday at a press conference said such a commission would not be appointed by Parliament. I believe it s desirable to have a commission of inquiry into all matters of state capture broadly, Mbete said.Now there was nothing. However, there would be a structure that will investigate into whatever you understand by state capture in its broadest meaning and what effect it has on South African society .When that structure was in place we will all sleep well, when we know we are having some people paying attention to this monster , Mbete said.On opposition parties going to court because they claimed the ANC was using its majority in Parliament, judicial overreach and the separation of powers, Mbete said previously political parties in Parliament had worked together. This business (court action by opposition parties) I think is not good for us because we run away from engaging, she said.According to her, opposition parties chose to go to courts because they could afford to do so. Mbete also spoke about allegations by trade union National Health Education and Allied Workers Union, which held a lunchtime protest at Parliament, that there would be retrenchments and no increases this year. It would not be our wish not to have any increase of salary. That s not our policy. She said Parliament was hopeful that we cannot settle for a zero percent increase .On complaints about ministers not attending meetings of parliamentary committees, Mbete said the matter had been taken up with the leader of government business, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa.He in turn raised it in Cabinet. This was a matter that Parliament was seeking to improve, Mbete said. She said she was upset about the suspension of the head of the institution s protection services, Zelda Holtzman. Holtzman and her deputy, Motlatsi Mokgatla, whose contract has since expired, were suspended almost two years ago.According to Parliament, legal teams were engaged with the matter. Today the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces will debate Parliament s budget vote. Mbete said the total budget is R2.2bn, well short of the R2.9bn that the institution had asked for.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za