#FeesMustFall activist Bonginkosi Khanyile says it was his determination and persistence that has led him to pass with distinction and graduate despite writing his final exams under pressure in prison last year.The 26 year old will tomorrow for the first time since his release from prison earlier this year, enter the Steve Biko campus at the Durban University of Technology.He was arrested during a student protest in September.Khanyile defied all the odds and wrote his exams at Westville Prison and earned four distinctions allowing him to graduate for his national diploma in public management and economics.The father of three said he was proud of his achievement. Fortunately my hard work paid off from the time I completed matric. I have been studying on scholarships and bursaries. I read a lot and I am one of those people who would rather miss hanging out with friends, just to go and read and to make sure my schoolwork is done, Khanyile said.The young man from eShowe said he was the first of his family to go to university and graduate.Khanyile said he wanted to further his studies in either political science or law.He wanted to become an inspiration for his younger siblings and those who came from a similar background. I grew up very poor. When I was young I had to move around from different households plagued by family conflict and worse, I had minimal parental guidance without a father figure. I think that was why from when I was in primary school, I decided that I since focus on nothing but excelling in my education. Popularly known as Education, Khanyile said he earned his nickname by being focused on his school work.Despite facing numerous challenges he knew it was a mountain to climb, similar to the one of achieving free education for all. I was suspended at Mangosuthu University of Technology because I took part in challenging the university management when students were faced with challenges. That is how I was named Education. Through all the struggles I have faced, I refuse to give up the fight for free decolonised education. Education is a right not a privilege and it must be accessible to all. Khanyile will be among 5796 students graduating at the DUT this week, despite numerous interruptions and forced closures due to the #FeesMustFall protests.SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULOprovinces@thenewage.co.za