Emerging markets (EMs), including South Africa, continue to benefit from inflows from the global risk-on environment, as investors seek higher yields. Analysts expect the trend to continue. The recent strength of the rand is testimony that emerging markets are once again flavour of the month for investors. In her week ahead note, Investec chief economist Annabel Bishop said the Institute of International Finance (IIF), showed that $89bn (R1.46 trillion) worth of EM bonds and equities were purchased (net of sales) by nonresidents in the first four months of this year, with emerging Asia receiving more than 80%. On Friday, the rand firmed to R12.85/$ as investors sought higher yield returns and the move by the Reserve Bank to keep rates at 7% strengthened the rand 0.5% against the dollar, encouraging investors in search of yields to pour money in. The currency was still off two-month highs sitting at R12.88/$ and expected to carry on where it left off this morning when the local market opens. “The rand has strengthened in line with other EM currencies on the back of large inflows into emerging bond markets,” NKC African Economics analysts said. “International investors continue to find real yields on South African bonds attractive despite heightened risk.” Local investors, though, exercised caution ahead of the ANC’s meeting at the weekend, amid rumours that the ruling party may seek the removal of President Jacob Zuma. This proved not to be the case, although the rand strengthened on the mere suggestion that Zuma’s fate would be discussed. Bishop said domestic currency strength, if substantial and sustained, has a dampening effect on inflation, assisting households financially and so likely improving consumer sentiment. “Currency strength is also supportive of capital equipment imports in an environment of strengthening demand. Should the momentum continue, we could strengthen our forecasts. The rand is very liquid, fluctuating with the vagaries of the carry trade leading to its high volatility,” Bishop said. Stanlib chief economist Kevin Lings agreed the rand exchange rate and domestic bond yields benefited from increased global capital inflows to emerging markets which largely offset the impact of the sovereign credit ratings downgrade. “The outlook for the rand and therefore the risks to the inflation outlook, will be highly sensitive to unfolding domestic political uncertainty, as well as decisions by the credit ratings agencies, especially from Moody’s credit rating agency. Moody’s is expected to give its assessment of SA’s creditworthiness this week. – with Reuters |BERNARD SATHEKGE