JO-MANGALISO MDHLELAFrom the Watchtower Former editor-in-chief of the Sowetan, the late Aggrey Klaaste, was a good man.He loved sport as much as he enjoyed the Queen s English of which he was a master.He also loved the resilience and big heart of Bruce Fordyce and often wondered what made him such a great ultra-marathon athlete.As the country struggled for social justice, Klaaste encouraged those in the trenches fighting for liberation to possess the heart of Fordyce and prepare for a long struggle. In my discussion with him some years ago, Klaaste posited a theory that suggested Fordyce became such an excellent runner because he believed in his capacity to be a great athlete and had never been burdened by self-doubt.He said and I am paraphrasing that good athletes like Fordyce and Muhammad Ali, among others, succeed because of their big hearts, their never-say-die spirit and knowing success comes to those who work hard. These nuggets of wisdom by Klaaste have never left me and should not leave those who wish to be great performers.Now 61, Fordyce was a proud winner of the Comrades Marathon for an unprecedented eight consecutive years from 1981 to 1988. His record has no peer and how we wish that there could be other athletes who match his record.For him, there were no barriers. In fact, such a word did not exist in his vocabulary. He became a determined athlete a marvel to watch as he pounded the road towards clocking some of the best times of his era.Talking about breaking barriers reminds me of one of the greatest boxers to have lived in the modern world. Muhammad Ali, three times winner of the world heavyweight championship, never thought of barriers either. Certainly, age to him was just a number, as he would prove in 1974 at the age of 32 when he defeated George Foreman, one of the greatest hard punchers of all times. Age was not an obstacle.Nobody gave him a chance against the formidable Foreman, 25, but Ali proved to all that through self-belief, hurdles such as age had no place in his life.Even as he faced death through a debilitating illness, Ali remained focused, not on the approaching death but on what men and women needed to do to make the world a better place for all humanity.The Comrades Marathon is on June 4. Several thousands of aspirant winners will desire to finish the race. May they all be inspired by the never-say-die spirit of the great Fordyce.Jo-Mangaliso Mdhlela writes for The New Age and runs the newspaper s journalism cadet school