The ANC in Gauteng yesterday took a conciliatory approach towards the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Associations (MKMVA) vitriolic attack on its provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile ANC Gauteng spokesperson Nkenke Kekana said the ANC in the province would be open to smoothing relations between it and MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe, after he took offence to Mashatile’s address at an MK Council gathering at the weekend. “MKMVA is free to come to the ANC and seek clarity if there is any confusion. They can come to us and ask clarity on what might have been a confusing situation for them,” he said. Kekana’s comments come on the  back of Maphatsoe’s scathing attack on Mashatile for addressing the MK Council’s national assembly gathering. Maphatsoe, in a press briefing at the weekend described the MK Council as a “parallel” structure that should not be recognised by the ANC. Maphatsoe, when asked if he would be open to the possibility of a sit down with the ANC in Gauteng on the matter, said MKMVA would accept the invitation. “Yes, we are prepared to meet with them and seek clarity on why they went to the meeting,” he said. Maphatsoe’s views on the MK Council were however, less conciliatory. He rubbished their legitimacy saying the grouping was an illegitimate structure and should not be recognised by the ANC. “The ANC has not given them any recognition, they are just a group of former MK members, but the behaviour of the council is that of a parallel structure. The ANC was clear, there’s only one MKMVA structure,” he said. Maphatsoe, making reference to MKMVA’s upcoming national conference, said it was agreed in previous meetings the MK Council would be allowed to have only 30 delegates attend the conference. “We allocated them 30 seats to attend the conference. That’s where we expect them to raise their issues, at the conference,”
he said. Maphatsoe also lamented the haggling between the two groups over preparations for the conference. “The conference was supposed to be held in October, they requested April.
We then said let’s have it in May and deadlocked because we were not finding each other. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe proposed October again and they refused. “They are now raising issues at the national consultative conference and we are still not finding each other.” Meanwhile an MK Council press briefing, which was supposed to respond to MKMVA’s media briefing at the weekend, was postponed tentatively to today. MK Council chairperson Siphiwe Nyanda took aim at Maphatsoe, laying blame for the failed talks between the groups over the conference, at the doorstep of MKMVA. “We could not agree with any of their proposals and we deadlocked.” BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za