Parliament says more funding should be allocated to the College Education and Training (CETs) sector. This comes after the Portfolio Committee on Higher Education and Training raised concerns about under funding of the sector. “We need to look into funding of higher education in general and the Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVETs) and CETs in particular. This is the post-school sector, which admits the greatest number of students in the country and provides skills training that our country requires,” said committee chairperson Connie September. “Furthermore, the greatest number of poor students from rural areas and townships are accommodated at colleges. It is the responsibility of government to ensure that the sector is well looked after and that it contributes skills to the economy.” The committee also raised concern over as there is no infrastructure budget for colleges that are in need of accommodation. “A lot has been done to improve the sector, but a lot more still needs to be done, especially given that education is one of government’s apex priorities,” she said. Minister of Higher Education and Training Blade Nzimande has previously stated the importance of TVET colleges and CET’s saying they make vital contributions to the ability of the economy to be competitive. “The mandate of the Department of Higher Education and Training is to develop a skilled and capable workforce that can contribute to a sustainable and inclusive growth path for our country, and the TVETs are crucial to this task,” said Nzimande while outlining plans for the 2017 academic year in January. The minister lamented how South Africans have focused on traditional universities and not paid attention on TVET’s and colleges. “Unfortunately, we as South Africans have in recent times often focused disproportionately on our universities, instead of giving appropriate attention to the entire PSET sector, and TVET colleges in particular,” said Nzimande. Nzimande has said the country’s 50 public TVET colleges are a vital assets which empower the next generations with very practical skills and knowledge. The sector has had its share of setbacks with last year the South African Further Education and Training Student Association shut down about 20 colleges across the country demanding, among other things, that the process of releasing results be quicker. -TNA Reporter