The Black Management Forum (BMF) has vowed to ensure transformation in the workplace happens, especially in the financial sector. BMF met Absa representatives at the weekend as part of a series of talks with banking industry players in a bid to understand what hurdles there were in implementing transformation. The planned talks were triggered by a walkout of black professionals at Absa Capital after senior black banker Phakamani Hadebe was reportedly overlooked recently for promotion to head Absa Corporate and Investment Banking. Absa CEO Maria Ramos told the BMF delegates that Phakamani’s resignation was not over transformation issues, a response the BMF is not entirely satisfied with. The BMF told The New Age that it didn’t want to personalise the issue. “We are going to look broadly at the issue of transformation rather than at individuals. We will be careful not to drag Phakamani’s name into the issue, but we know that he might have left unhappy with transformation within Absa,” Dumisani Mpata, BMF deputy president said. According to Mpata, the BMF, which is at the forefront of transformation within corporate SA, challenged Absa Group CEO Ramos and some of her executives head on to try find out where they are in terms of black talent and what are they intending to do in future. “There is a broad lack of transformation at Absa from our reading,” Mpata said. “We have been intentional in our focus on the composition of executive teams and company boards with regard to gender and race,” he said. “We believe that gatekeeping is sponsored from the top, leading to transformation being undermined and ultimately reversed,” he said. At its meeting with Absa, the BMF highlighted its concerns with regards to the “dismal” board and exco representation of black executives and the general lack of transformation in senior teams managing key Absa business units. BMF also raised the issue of the concentration of power in the hands of a single executive, David Hodnett, who in addition to his double-hat roles as deputy group CE and CEO of SA business operations, is now – even if temporarily – the head of CIB and retail and business banking. “We asked if Absa had no other executives to fill these roles and whether the Reserve Bank is comfortable with Hodnett’s many roles that clearly pose salient risks. The meeting with Absa was robust and candid and Ramos promised that a more detailed follow up engagement will be held to delve deeper into transformation issues within the organisation,” Mpata said. In her comments after the 90-minute meeting, Ramos said the 15 professionals that staged the walkout would not be victimised. However, BMF said one of the main factors contributing to the slowness of transformation is the fact that the Labour Department lacked competent inspectors. “The department has let us down for not including us in the process. But we are taking South African corporates head on now,” the BMF said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za