The World Economic Forum Africa kicked off in style yesterday morning with delegates pouring in from the continent and beyond. The forum comes at a critical time domestically and internationally for emerging markets.The world is a different place following Brexit and the Trump administration. If you take a further step back, you can even conclude that the PIIGS (Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, Spain) era is still partly destructive to the sobering nature of the world economy. With revised GDP numbers for both the world and its individual countries, being held in Africa means taking advantage of the African story and promoting its journey towards development.Widening inequality, adverse poverty and high unemployment are at the core of the continent s challenges. Therefore it was no surprise to find themes that resonated with the sluggish economic environment in which SA and Africa find themselves.The tourism industry was eager to take full advantage of the visitors to our shores. MEC of tourism and economic development, Sihle Zikalala was inspired to say that more than R450m can expected to be added to the eThekwini metro as a result of this particular event and many more that will be hosted in this financial year.But perhaps the most critical person in the whole matter is the new Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, who has continued to emphasise the need for an inclusive economy and a fundamental shift in the construct of our economy.Explaining the basis of the inclusive economy, Gigaba said: We cannot continue to have the 40/40/40 syndrome from our people, which strategically marginalises them from participating equally in the economy. They are 40km from where they work, they live in 40m housing and 40% of their income goes towards transport. President Jacob Zuma added his word, making it clear that such events continued to prove that South Africa was well positioned to host such events and welcome foreign friends from far and wide. It is still an attractive investment destination. As he was asked about his position as the head of state, he simply said: I am here to stay. As the next two days will focus on infrastructure and development of the continent, many delegates are keen to find out about Africa s largest economy and how it will recover from the two rating agencies downgrades.Also, many may feel a need to fill their curiosity on the political hot potato that has masked our growth potential.However, with themes like Three ways to make Africa s rich work for the poor and How to embed our 2017 meeting by implementation, one can only sense a glimmer of hope for this continent that we call home.Clive Ramathibela-Smithnews@thenewage.co.za