Lowly and much-maligned street food vendors have emerged as major contributors to the economy.The New Age this week visited a number of vendors who operate mostly around office parks to get an insight into the industry that is creating jobs and providing a vital service.The common denominator among vendors is the running battles they have with police and the lack of proper infrastructure with which to conduct their business.Tembisa resident Llota Kokwele said that he started selling food along Old Pretoria Road in Randjesfontein, Midrand in 2011.This was after he saw the gap for new players in the food industry. I thought that it would be a good idea to bring food to truck drivers and lovers of traditional foods, he said. On a good day, I make about R1200 on each potjie pot of pap and I make four of them. Kokwele employs three full-time staff and has been able to buy a bakkie for the business.On an average day, Kokwele has 40 customers for his pap, tripe, chicken and skopo (cow s head meat).Kokwele s plea is for shelter and for police and health inspectors to stop harassing street vendors. We are constantly told to leave and we have mouths to feed, Kokwele said.He said competition had multiplied since he began six years ago, citing unemployment.Bongani Masuku, an employee of Kokwele, is grateful that he has a couple of rands in his pocket every day.Emily Seopane, a mother and wife from the same township, has set up nearby. She makes an honest living and believes the government should help financially. Instead, they chase us away. We operate in fear, she said.Helping Seopane is Shabe Moloko, who gets up at 4.30am to start preparing food so it is cooked by 8am. Her day ends at 2pm.Prices range from R25 to R35 a plate and as there are only two of them, they take home about R1500 a day.Innocent Makhavhu, a regular who works nearby, said the food is cheap and you can buy food on credit because we live our lives with these people and end up becoming family .The city of Johannesburg said that for health and safety reasons, vendors should be regulated. The licence and certificate of acceptability serves as proof to the public that the vendor is legal, the city said. Department of small business spokesperson Cornelius Monana, acknowledged that street vendors contributed to society. The Informal and Micro Enterprise Development Programme offers training and infrastructure support in the form of tools, equipment and other technology based instruments to informal businesses, Monana said. Furthermore, training, loans, grants and other forms of support for infrastructure are provided by the department s agencies, the Small Enterprise Development Agency (Seda) and the Small Enterprise Finance Agency (Sefa). Dirk van Vlaanderen, an associate portfolio manager at Kagiso Asset Management, said street vendors make up 70% of the fast food industry.