Private hospital group Mediclinic International has recorded increased revenue by 30% to £2.7bn (R45bn) for the year ended in March due to its expansion into the Middle East and the UK. Mediclinic has a stake in Switzerland’s Hirslanden as well as Spire Healthcare in Britain. The group also joined the United Arab Emirates in purchasing Al Noor. The Swiss subsidiary Hirslanden recorded revenue up 3% while the southern African region increased revenue by 7% to R14.3m and the middle Eastern division increased revenue by 72%. However, South Africa’s biggest private hospital group by market value reported a 19% drop in underlying fullyear earnings, hurt by regulations in the Middle East. “Underlying earnings of £220m were flat, with Spire Healthcare Group contributing £12m while underlying earnings per share decreased by 19% to 29.8 pence, largely impacted by the shares issued to acquire and adverse operating performance of Al Noor,” the group said. Underlying earnings per share came in at 29.8 pence per share compared with 36.7 pence a year earlier, largely impacted by the shares issued to acquire Al Noor and adverse operating performance in Abu Dhabi, the company said. The proposed final dividend per share is 4.7 pence, representing a 27% pay-out ratio to underlying earnings. This, the group said, is in line with their dividend pay-out ratio target of 25% to 30%. Mediclinic is looking for growth beyond its markets, which include its home market, the United Arab Emirates, Switzerland and Britain, the firm’s chief financial officer said. CEO Danie Meintjes said during the year, two of their largest operating platforms, Switzerland and southern Africa and the Dubai business performed well, growing revenues and patient volumes. They expected a gradual improvement in the Middle East platform through the 2018 financial year. A co-payment system on private healthcare in Abu Dhabi had weighed on the firm’s operations in the United Arab Emirates, but the government has since scrapped it. “Recent regulatory changes provide support for the gradual recovery in performance of the Abu Dhabi business and future investment decisions,” the firm said. In the Zurich region, after lobbying by Mediclinic’s Swiss unit, MPs in April voted against a hospital levy on privately insured patients, the company said. –with Reuters THELMA NGOMA