In a bid to open access to tertiary education, Eastern Cape rural development MEC, Mlibo Qoboshiyane in conjunction with the Health and Welfare Seta awarded R15.9m worth of bursaries in Tsolo on Friday.The beneficiaries were 105 Tsolo Agriculture and Rural Development Institute (Tardi) students studying towards an animal health diploma.This follows the department s application to the Seta for R15.9m to help fund education for students from poor and rural families who didn t have money to pay their fees. Second year student Pretty Morrison said without the bursary she would have struggled to pay for her studies, adding that it helped her to focus on getting higher grades from her modules. The bursary means that I can be educated, I can become an animal health technician. I can gain experience and when I come out of this college, I can help the community. I want to be an entrepreneur; I want to start my own sheep farm business because I want to focus on wool production, Morrison said. I want to invest some of my stipend towards building my business after finishing my studies. Tardi SRC president, Zubenathi Ngxishe, a #FeesMustFall activist, said when fees fell South African youth would be well educated and equipped to work and move the country forward. Getting the bursary means I will be able to learn and be equipped to work as the bursary helps me to acquire knowledge and experience. I can go anywhere in South Africa and help animals. (Without the bursary) I wouldn t have been able to pay my fees, as last year I only managed to pay my registration fees, Ngxishe said, adding that he planned to open a farm to treat animals in rural areas after completing his diploma.A total of 225 Tardi students including those awarded in previous years are recipients of the 100% bursary funding from the Health and Welfare Seta to the tune of R23.9m. Health and Welfare Seta Eastern Cape manager, Welekazi Mangaliso said the bursaries are also reducing poverty with a monthly stipend, which students share with their families who have no source of income. One of the main purposes of the existence of the Setas is to redress past imbalances. Previously not everybody was able to access scarce skills. This qualification offered here is a scarce skill that will equip these students to achieve whatever they want in life. They can be employed and they can be self-employed, Mangaliso said.Qoboshiyane said it was good to see the government entities partnering to support students got quality education. The students will receive free education for the next three year in the institution, he said.Qoboshiyane said the department was investing on upgrading the Tardi infrastructure. We invested about R20m to upgrade infrastructure facilities like the vet clinic, crop sheds, postmodern facility, palisade fence, dairy parlour and students residents. Tardi offers animal health diploma courses like animal breeding and genetics, aquaculture and wildlife, non ruminant animal production, occupational communication, animal handling and welfare, veterinary anatomy and physiology, veterinary microbiology and immunology among others.The department also engaged AgriSeta to contribute to the education of students, the OR Tambo district and Mhlontlo local municipalities are to provide bursaries to some of the students from their areas.Agri Seta agreed to contribute R500 000 for 20 students, which will be transferred to the 2017 new intake.Mhlontlo local municipality fully awarded R263000 bursary to 12 students for tuition and boarding for one year. Mhlontlo council was again approached in late 2016 to fund 2017 first year students and they were able to award R407000 to 22 students from villages within Mhlontlo.In 2017, OR Tambo district municipality funded two students for an amount of R43200 inclusive of R4000 each for book allowance.SIYA MITIprovinces@thenewage.co.za