IF MAMELODI Sundowns recent performance on the continent is anything to go by, then they should forget about defending the CAF Champions League title, coach Pitso Mosimane reckons.The Brazilians have been far from impressive this campaign, struggling to stamp their authority against Kampala Capital City Authority and St George of Ethiopia in their two matches played.On Saturday, they were held to a disappointing goalless draw at home by St George in a match Mosimane likened to a non-professional Sunday league fixture. Sundowns failed to create decent chances and did not show any signs to suggest they are the defending champions and Mosimane warned that they won t defend their title if the team does not improve. To be honest with you, I ve never seen a mild game like this. This was one of easiest games ever played here in the Champions League, Mosimane said. But what is the point in saying it was an easy match when we don t win? We were not aggressive in the box up front, we moved the ball, we circulated the ball and they hardly touched it, but what s the point? I don t know if I watched the game in the right way, but I think it was one of the easiest games. But we didn t win and I am disappointed. Looking at their performance on Saturday, it is difficult to predict whether the Brazilians will become the third team after AlAhly and TP Mazembe to retain the Champions League. This performance will not win you the Champions League. I think that we have forgotten that we are the defending champions Mosimane said. There was no football, this was a Sunday league game. A nice Sunday afternoon game for over 30s. I think after a month of training, I can put my boots back on and play. I could even do something. We were passing the ball, let s be honest. If it was tough for us to penetrate then I would say maybe that s the reason that teams now know us. Esperance top the group after the first round with three points while Sundowns and Saint George follow with a point each with Vita bottom. Meanwhile, SuperSport United were held to a 2-2 draw by Horoya AC in the CAF Confederation Cup group stage opening match at home on Friday.nevillek@thenewage.co.za-Neville Khoza