Tokelo Africa, the man famously known for supporting Oscar Pistorious during his murder trial, was honoured by his community for assisting more than 150 elderly people, who were employed by the Bophuthatswana government, in getting their pension fund payouts.The Botshabelo-based activist and political party leader is well-known for calling for better treatment of ex-convicts and prisoners.He is also the president of the South African Prisoners Unemployed Political Party, which describes its mandate as focusing on the cancellation of criminal records and assisting unemployed people to get jobs without nepotism, among others.Elderly people who attended the event, endorsed by the Lekgotla La Basotho Council, said Africa had fought for them, assisted with paperwork and made it his mission to get them their money.Africa said that as a political leader he could not sit and do nothing so he organised youth and party members and started his mission. So far, we have helped more than 150 people who had lost hope that they were ever going to receive their blue cards. We heard that they were told that all the people who worked for the two departments PAO (now public works) and GG (now education department) under the apartheid government before democracy in 1994 cannot get their money, Africa said. Some of them had already died but their children and grandchildren received the benefits. We had to contact Premier Ace Magashule to assist us in tracing and tracking down these beneficiaries and we also succeeded in helping others who worked in mines. He said they continued to assist the elderly and were working on challenges in his community. There are many issues that we are also dealing with including gangsterism. We have had campaigns in the past years where we took gang members and rehabilitated them. We do not want to see our people suffer, we do not want to see people unemployed, we also do not want to see the ex-convicts suffer because we are also fighting for them to get their criminal records erased so they are able to get decent jobs. He said as per his party s mandate of supporting the ex-convicts, they supported Pistorius because he was already a convict when he was sentenced for the second time.Emely Matshaba,72, from W section in Botshabelo, said she had given up hope that she would ever receive her payout. I did not believe it when I was told that I will receive my pension package after submitting all the relevant documents. Even if I die, I will die peacefully knowing that the money that I received, the money I worked for, for many for years, I received it, Matshabe said.Tshediso Pule from the Lekgotla La Basotho council said Africa deserved to be honoured because he had worked hard.Among gifts given to Africa were blankets.BECKER SEMELAbeckers@thenewage.co.za