Things are looking up for local hip hop duo, B3nchmarq, made up of rappers Phologo PJ Mataboge and Tkay Mathiba.The two rappers, who were part of the mass exodus of artists who left Ambitiouz Entertainment alongside Fifi Cooper and A-Reece early this year, have put the dramatic episode behind them as they rebuild their name in the local and intentional hip hop industry. I won t lie, we have suffered a great deal of reputational damage as a result of the lawsuit that is being handled through our lawyers. However, we are still grateful to the company for the exposure and platforms they gave us when we were still with them. But the hustle for us is still on as independent artists, PJ said.Some of the reasons cited for the public spat between the artists and their former employers include lack of financial progress, starvation wages and lack of marketing.PJ said the duo we re focused on making a name for themselves beyond the borders of the country and it seems the recent collaboration with Ice Prince and the upcoming international gigs have something to do with the new way of looking at things.The band has a series of performances outside SA borders and this weekend they are due to perform in Birmingham, as part of the Taboo UK tour, alongside former label mates Fifi Cooper and A-Reece, as well as kwaito group DBN Nytes and DJ Rabs Vhafuwi.Then there is the potential of also performing in Dublin in the coming weeks.It is safe to say things are really looking up for the two rappers. Things are starting to look up for us, following our public separation from Ambitiouz Entertainment. We are at a rebuilding phase and our hustle still continues as independent artists, PJ said.As things settle PJ said, looking at some of the recent developments, leaving Ambitiouz Entertainment, though unfortunate, had become a blessing in disguise for their brand as independent artists. I would say us leaving the way we did was a blessing in disguise and we needed to learn certain things about the industry for our careers to move forward. We are now fully independent artists and though it has not been easy, we are happy to be our own bosses as independent artists. We are using our own resources and the connections we have made to continue with our hustle, he said.Back on the music front, B3nchmarq have released a new single, Wayase, which features Nigerian hip hop star, Ice Prince. We have always been looking to work with Ice Prince, but due to contractual obligations we could not realise this dream. Because we have always had a relationship with Ice Prince s South African representative, as soon as we could, we rekindled it. The timing was just perfect. We are looking at more collaborations with other African artists before we release an album or go to America or the UK, PJ said.The 26-year-old rapper said Wayase was a fun, dance hall-inspired track with a tropical fantasy feel to it. The plan is to release single after single until such time that we build enough material to warrant a full album. This will be one of the biggest songs of 2017. We are in control of our music and the ownership thereof, PJ said.Having learnt the music business the hard way, the group feels it is their duty to be role models for the up-and-coming artists who want to get into the SA music industry through what the rapper calls the holy trinity of transparency, respect and experience .siyabongas@thenewage.co.za