He only learned of the deaths of Gauteng psychiatric patients when the matter was raised in that province s legislature, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said.Motsoaledi said the deaths came to his attention when Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, who has since resigned, was responding to a question in the legislature, said in September last year that 36 mentally ill patients had died under the care of non-governmental organisations in and around Gauteng. I was completely shocked and could not comprehend the whole thing. I immediately contacted the health ombudsperson, Prof Malegapuru Makgoba, to investigate, he said in a written response to DA MP Dr Annelie Lotriet.Lotriet had asked Motsoaledi when he had first learned of the transfer of thousands of mentally ill patients from Life Esidimeni Healthcare to 27 unlicensed NGOs. Motsoaledi said: I subsequently learnt from his report that it was actually 94 patients who died and not the 36 as earlier announced by the MEC in the legislature. I also learnt from the ombud s report that when they died they were under the care of 27 NGOs and that the NGOs actually had invalid licences issued by the Gauteng department of health. All these facts I only learnt when the health ombud presented me with a preliminary report in January this year. Motsoaledi said in the whole Life Esidimeni saga there were different events and various facts that had occurred and also emerged at different times.He had first learned of the intention of the Gauteng department of health to terminate its contract with Life Esidimeni and move mentally ill patients to other facilities in November 2015 when Section 27, on behalf of the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag), wrote to the national Department of Health threatening to take the Gauteng department of health to court.They said they would cite the minister and the premier of Gauteng though no reprieve would be sought from them. The director-general of the national Department of Health then contacted Gauteng to try to find out what this is all about as nobody in the Gauteng government ever informed the national Department of Health of any problem pertaining to mental health patients, Motsoaledi said.After a briefing, the director-general felt there was nothing that should provoke a court case and that the issues relating to mental health patients were straightforward and could be settled through a discussion. The director-general then facilitated a meeting between the head of the Gauteng department of health, Sadag and Section 27.The Gauteng department of health and Sadag signed an agreement whereby it was agreed that if patients have to be moved, they will be moved to facilities that do not offer an inferior service to which they were receiving at Life Esidimeni , Motsoaledi said. As it emerged later, the Gauteng department of health unfortunately breached this agreement in every conceivable manner. DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za