Heightened geopolitical uncertainty and multispeed growth across Africa present a mixed foreign direct investment (FDI) picture for the continent, according to EY s latest Africa Attractiveness report released yesterday, The report provides an analysis of FDI investment into Africa over the past 10 years.The 2016 data show Africa attracted 676 FDI projects, a 12.3% decline from the previous year and FDI job creation numbers declined 13.1%. However, capital investment rose 31.9%. The report said the surge in capital investment was primarily driven by capital intensive projects in two sectors, real estate, hospitality and construction (RHC), and transport and logistics. The continent s share of global FDI capital flows increased to 11.4% from 9.4% in 2015.This made Africa the second-fastest growing FDI destination by capital. Investor sentiment towards Africa is likely to remain somewhat softer over the next few years. This has far less to do with Africa s fundamentals than it does with a world characterised by heightened geopolitical uncertainty and greater risk aversion, Ajen Sita, Africa CEO at EY, said. Investors with an existing presence in Africa remain positive about the continent s longer-term investment attractiveness, but they are also cautious and discerning. In a sign of ongoing diversification of Africa s FDI investors, more than one fifth of FDI projects and more than half of capital investment into Africa came from Asia-Pacific in 2016, an alltime record. Chinese FDI into Africa increased dramatically, making the country the single largest contributor of FDI capital and jobs in Africa last year.Egypt, Kenya, Morocco, Nigeria and South Africa the key hub economies collectively attracted 58% of the continent s total FDI projects in 2016. South Africa remains the continent s leading FDI destination, when measured by project numbers, increasing 6.9%. Morocco regained its place as Africa s second largest recipient with projects up by 9.5%, followed by Egypt, which attracted 19.7% more FDI projects than the previous year. Although foreign investors still favour the key hub economies in Africa, a new set of FDI destinations is emerging, with Francophone and East African markets of particular interest.Despite having a 31.7% decline in FDI projects in 2016, and weak growth in recent years, West Africa s second largest economy, Ghana, remains a key FDI market. The country s improving macroeconomic environment and strong governance track record has seen Ghana rise to fourth position in the EY Africa Attractiveness Index (AAI). The index was introduced in 2016 to measure the relative investment attractiveness of 46 African economies based on a balanced set of shorter and longerterm metrics.Cote d Ivoire also features in the top 10 of the AAI, and with a 21.4% jump in FDI projects in 2016, this illustrates that it s becoming a country more favoured by investors. By 2030, Africa remains on track to be a US$3t economy. However, growth needs to become more inclusive and sustainable to eradicate poverty at the levels that are required, Sita said. If we accept the reality that physical connectivity enabled by regional integration and the development of physical infrastructure will remain a key stumbling block to inclusive growth across Africa for at least the next decade, then the need to embrace digital connectivity becomes critical. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za