Zingu-7 Youth Development Foundation, a non-profit organisation based in Welkom, is determined to raise as much funds as it can to ensure that no child goes to school without shoes this winter.Yesterday the organisation held a fundraising event, which was also a celebration of its cofounder Dikeledi Direko s 30th birthday at Freddie Meyer Hall in the small mining town.Direko said Zingu-7 was an initiative that she took after she realised that in order to reduce the challenges of the social ills of the community such as nyaope and HIV-Aids, she had to take action. When you talk to the youth you will understand that some of the conditions they are in leave them with no choice but to be involved in negative things. For instance a boy child who doesn t have a proper school uniform and is teased by his peers will be discouraged from going to school because he will feel like he doesn t belong there, she said. I joined forces with Papiki May who is the chief whip of Matjhabeng to celebrate our birthdays through charity events like this one, Direko said.She said her birthday event was also a way of fundraising for the purchase of school uniforms, sanitary pads and school shoes for those who are less fortunate. Winter is approaching and many children don t have a proper school uniform since most parents are not working and also many homes are child-headed. We decided to invite business people to come and to buy tables for this event, in this way they will be contributing to making someone s life much easier this winter, she said.Direko, who is a member of mayoral committee in Matjhabeng municipality said she was just a woman inspired by the premier of Free State to give back to her community. The premier always says that once you have something, it is important to share it with those who are less fortunate. This initiative has been running for a while now and it doesn t only take place during our birthdays but also during Christmas time, Direko said.She said in December they had a Christmas party for children and the elderly community. We bought them clothes and gifts to make them feel loved and to show them that we cared. She said they had already donated school shoes to four schools, including Lephola High School.They have also identified children in their communities who are in need of assistance and bought them school clothes and Christmas clothes. One of our programmes is to develop our people by coming up with programmes that will give them hope regardless of what is happening in their lives. No matter what you might be faced with there is still hope that tomorrow you will be a better person. I believe that caring brings hope to other people, she said.GRACE BOLOWANAprovinces@thenewage.co.za