In the past, criminal activities and drug usage were mostly associated with males but according to the head of Gugulethu Patrollers, Hank Booi, young girls in Gugulethu were slowly becoming involved in such acts.An issue that most townships have in common is drug and alcohol abuse by youths, resulting in a high crime rate in the area.The Gugulethu Patrollers are a group of about 200 men within the community who have taken the initiative to attempt to eradicate crime in Gugulethu by patrolling the streets and apprehending thieves caught in the act.The patrollers work every night, making sure the streets are safe to walk around, with some also working in the morning to ensure people can go to work safely.Booi said: On our patrols, we have come across addicted couples living in backyard shacks, smoking in the presence of small children. To our surprise, there are a lot of young girls who are now also involved in criminal activities. They are also addicted to drugs. According to the Western Cape s crime statistics for 2016, drug-related crimes stood at 1393, illegal possession of firearms and ammunition at 66, theft of motor vehicles and motorcycles at 92 and burglary at residential premises at 392.Booi said the Neighbourhood Watch, which was established four years ago, was started because of an increase in all kinds of criminal activities. Four years ago, before the Gugulethu Patrollers were formally established, people used to be robbed of their cell phones, handbags and whatever they had on them, in broad daylight. House robberies were also frequent, Booi said.Recently, the patrollers called on the community to demolish all shacks drug addicts were using to smoke their drugs. The main issue that leads to crime in Gugulethu is the number of youngsters who are addicted to the tik drug. In order for them to satisfy their cravings, they have to steal. It affects both those who are in school, as well as those who do not attend school. There is a high number of teenagers in Gugulethu who do not attend school, Booi said.He said patrollers tended to risk their lives as some had been shot and injured while on patrol.Booi said every time the patrollers went out, their safety was at risk.. We are dealing with people who have taken crime as a career. There are a lot of criminals who are armed in our community so every time we are out there is a risk, Booi said. Fortunately, there have never been deaths but injuries on both sides. We have come across criminals who have shot or stabbed some of our members, but luckily in all those incidents, there were no fatalities. In some incidents, we have had to defend ourselves, Booi said.He recalled a recent incident where they had to collect goods that had been stolen from a church in Gugulethu and sold in Manenberg. We had to go to Manenberg, into a gang-infested area, to collect church instruments that were stolen in Gugulethu and sold in that area. Although it was a hostile environment, we went in and out without anybody getting hurt. Booi said patrollers had a good relationship with local police as it was important because their input as community members in solving crime could only lead to an improvement of the situation for all.Keitumetsi Motlhaleprovinces@thenewage.co.za