Unscrupulous students from institutions of higher learning have been fingered for defrauding the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) to fund extravagant lifestyles, including partying at weekends.An investigation by The New Age has revealed that some financial aid recipients have set up shop outside bookstores to sell textbook allowances they received as part of their NSFAS aid packages. Outside the entrance of a prominent bookshop on Church Street in the Pretoria CBD, The New Age found groups of about five students trying to broker deals from those entering the bookstore buying books at retail prices. In terms of the scam, the book touts intercept students outside the store, offering to use their NSFAS Fundi cards to purchase the books.Once there is agreement, the tout then enters the store and purchases the book with their card at the normal retail price. They then resell the book to their client at a discount which is pocketed. According to a security guard at the store, the students have turned their allowance cards into spaza shopping vouchers . There are always students touting outside as soon as the bookshop opens until we close. They take shifts. As soon as they have made their profit, they move along for others to do it. The guard said he suspected they did this at more than one store a day as they are only permitted to make one transaction a day at the bookshop using their NSFAS issued card. NSFAS loads money for books and food onto the cards for students to use at approved merchants. Students also get R250 loaded into their bank accounts for travelling. A Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) student who had been camping outside Van Schaik said she had a lot of money on her card that she did not need for textbooks and she would rather have cash in hand.When The New Age visited the bookstore, the 21-year-old student had been waiting outside since it opened at 8am, desperate to get someone who wanted to buy books using cash. Around 9am, the young textbookpreneur and three others had left their business spot for four others to take over. Among those on the second shift was a girl who wanted a sale not less than R400 for the day. Pouncing on anyone who approached the door at the store, the TUT student turned away a number of potential customers who did not meet the criteria. The New Age undercover team managed to buy an Oxford school dictionary almost R50 cheaper from a student who claimed he desperately needed money to go home as there had been an emergency .He told this reporter to wait at a distance so he could make the purchase without being suspected of any wrongdoing and came back to collect his money with the brand new dictionary in hand. These revelations emerge against the background of more than two years of student protests, quite often violent, for free university education. The #FeesMustFall protests gained national prominence and resulted in the government appointing a fees commission to explore the feasibility of free education. NSFAS spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said they had since blocked and suspended accounts of those found guilty of offering to buy books using Fundi cards and selling them at reduced prices to those with cash. Initially NSFAS sent warning SMSs to students who were found selling or exchanging their allowances but as this activity increase, it is evident that the SMS warning is no longer useful and NSFAS is now sending a stronger message to students not to misuse the allowances provided to them for academic support, he said.Mamabolo urged those who witnessed fraudulent activity to report it through its Vuvuzela Hotline. South African Union of Students spokesperson Sthembiso Ndlovu said while it condemned the students behaviour, that they were faced with dire circumstances at university could not be ignored. He said TUT students had it tough SHADY PRACTICE: NSFAS beneficiaries broker a deal for cheaper textbooks outside a prominent bookshop in Pretoria. PICTURE: SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE Poor students scam NSFAS as they were given a cash allowance of R250 a month meant for travelling expenses and rent. R250 does not even cover rent in Soshanguve. It is not enough. It can never be sufficient, Ndlovu said. Ministry of Higher Education spokesperson Madikwe Mabotha deplored the misuse of financial aid and encouraged NSFAS to take a tough stand against those misdirecting their education grants.NSFAS fee confusionTHE New Age s expos of NSFASfunded students using their state allowances to start up businesses as textbookprenuers comes amidst revelations that hundreds of other students are struggling through the academic year without any money for textbooks, food or accommodation. The academic year is almost halfway through and students are still waiting for SMSs instructing them to sign the online loan agreement forms (LAF). Frustrated students said it was difficult getting through the year without their textbook and meal allowances. Sibusiso Mthimunye, a Tshwane University of Technology (TUT ) student, said he applied for NSFAS a year before he was admitted but had problems with uploading the necessary documents. I sent an email to NSFAS explaining my problem and I was told to email my documents directly to them but there was no reply after emailing them, Mthimunye said. He continued sending emails to NSFAS and was later told that his application was still being processed. Even now, I haven t been given a reply regarding my application and I do not know how my fees are going to be paid, Mthimunye said.Thando Skhosana, a University of Johannesburg (UJ ) student said at the beginning of the year she received a message from NSFAS, saying she was approved for funding this year but has not received any allowance or signed the online contract. She said she went to the financial aid office on campus and was told that the university had to send her results to NSFAS for her to be able to get all her allowances. I went to the department dealing with results on campus and I was told to give them two to three weeks to sort out everything. I am living in private accommodation so I need the allowance to be able to pay my rent, Skhosana said.A parent of a second-year B Com student at UJ said her son who applied for NSFAS at the beginning of the year was still on a waiting list. She said she had been following up with the Department of Higher Education and Training since the beginning of March. I was told that my son s application has been declined because I earn R150000 per annum but last year the minister announced 100 times on all media platforms that children whose parents earn less than R600000 a year qualify for NSFAS bursaries. When I asked about that I was told that what the minister meant was that such children would be assisted with fee increments, the mother said.Her son is among the 53043 applicants from universities and TVET colleges that were unsuccessful this year. According to NSFAS spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo, this was due to applicants not meeting the minimum requirements. NSFAS fully implemented its centralised online system late last year, allowing the funding scheme to have a direct relation with approved students . While the system has been criticised by student bodies, including the South African Students Congress (Sasco), NSFAS believes it has yielded positive results. Although we have experienced challenges, we have approved funding for 463470 students which is higher than the anticipated 405000 students. The centralised system allows NSFAS to have a direct relationship with approved students from the time they apply for funding, once they are approved, throughout academic life cycle, once the student graduates and once the student is employed and eligible to start repayments, Mamabolo said.-LILLIAN SELAPISA, SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE AND ANGEL MAHLOnews@thenewage.co.za