The ANC s leagues yesterday tried to offset some pressure on President Jacob Zuma as the Constitutional Court heard arguments on why MP s should be allowed to vote by a secret ballot in the motion of no confidence debate in him.ANCWL president Bathabile Dlamini a staunch Zuma backer tore into the anti-Zuma march, led by opposition political parties in Johannesburg. She said that the ANC should close ranks in the face of mounting opposition against the leadership of Zuma. Nothing is going to change us and who should lead the ANC. There can t be any anarchy in this country over their attacks on the president of the ANC, Dlamini said.She said that while the opposition benches were free to march, the ANC would stand firm behind its president. The opposition is not going to dictate to the ANC on who should lead it. They must go and debate their issues in Parliament, Parliament is where you should go and debate. Dlamini s comments were in sharp contrast to ANC MP Makhosi Khoza, who has been outspoken about ANC MPs being given the opportunity to vote by a secret ballot on the matter. This has, however, sparked the ire of the ANC Youth League in eThekwini.The young lions have demanded that she be removed as an MP. ANCYL secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza poured cold water on the march, saying it would not achieve its aims. What we are seeing is yet another unsuccessful plot by people who have been mobilised by the opposition. This is not even a fraction of the people of South Africa. These people are just pushing an agenda of being in opposition to everything. These people are suffering from selective amnesia. This is not a banana republic that whenever the opposition wakes up laws must change to suit their agenda s. They must challenge us in the elections and not use the courts as a back-door to govern. However, opposition leaders yesterday led a march in unison from the Johannesburg CBD to the Constitutional Court. DA leader Mmusi Maine, addressing party supporters at Mary Fitzgerald Square, said it was high time for Zuma to leave office. We are here to say you deployed Brian Molefe (reappointed Eskom CEO), we are saying he deserves to be in jail. We are saying because of you 9 million South Africans don t have jobs, EFF leader Julius Malema said the judiciary should not be intimidated for doing its work.This comes as the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal lead a march in Durban against judicial overreach . We are saying to the judges, don t be intimidated by criminals. The masses are on your side because you are on the side of the people, and when you are on the side of the people, you ll never go wrong, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za