Newly minted Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter has conceded it has been a difficult task to balance his focus between the national team and SuperSport United since his appointment last week. Baxter was confirmed as the new man in charge of Bafana by the South African Football Association (Safa) and will take over at the end of the month. With SuperSport left with three matches before the conclusion of the season, Baxter is facing a torrid schedule to guide Matsatsantsa a Pitori to a strong finish, while Bafana is expected to play powerhouse Nigeria in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier next month. The Brit will need to start with preparations for that match and is expected to name his squad before the end of the season. “I’ve got to tell you straight away that Safa has asked me not to comment on my role with them in detail because obviously, the president is out of the country,” Baxter said. “And also for me, it is out of respect to my present employer SuperSport United who has been very good to me but if I give you a general comment, it’s not easy to be there on the SuperSport bench with people asking about the national job. “It’s not easy looking to the future seeing important games coming up with SuperSport and the national team to try and split yourself to do both, it’s not easy. “But it is a challenge I thought long and hard about and it is a challenge I want to take on.” This will be the second spell for the 63 year old. He previously led Bafana as coach in 2004 and 2005 before being relieved of his duties after he failed to qualify the country for the 2006 Fifa World Cup in Germany. His priority, for now, is to help SuperSport to a decent finish in the league before he can start with Bafana duties. Tonight, they meet Cape Town City at Lucas Moripe Stadium in the Absa Premiership match which could determine the fate of the Citizens in the title race. City is second on the table with 52 points, five behind log leaders Bidvest Wits with three matches remaining. “In any case, we can say yeah we can decide but the boys will be up for it, we played well down there in Cape Town in the first leg and we gave them the equalizer late in the game,” Baxter said. “So it is going to be an interesting game and it will be two teams that want to win the game.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za