He might not be a teenager any more, but 22-year-old actor and presenter Given Stuurman is ruling the small screen, playing two different roles as troublesome Kgosi Legae on e.tv s Scandal and as the lovable gay guy Reggie on MTV s Shuga Down South.It has been hardly a month since Stuurman joined the popular e.tv soapie as delinquent Kgosi. This has resulted in tension between his sister Kgontse, played by Khanyisile Zwane and their over-bearing and protective mother, Gloria Legae, a character stunningly portrayed by actress Marjorie Langa.Stuurman recently took time off from his schedule and spoke to The New Age about his new role, saying in spite of the chaos and mayhem resulting from his sudden emergence at the Legae household, Kgosi is simply a teenager going through the motions of trying his way in life. Kgosi s random experiment with drugs gets him into trouble at his school in Witbank and he flees Soweto to be with his mother Gloria and sister Kgontse. Having been raised by his father and stepmother, Kgosi takes advantage of the fact that he has been separated from his mother for a long time and knows just how to play the whole situation to his advantage. Kgosi like most teenagers is an energetic, sociable teenager and troublesome, who manipulates the fact that his mother and father do not see eye to eye, having recently divorced. An attention seeker, he feels he can do without school. He also starts experimenting with dagga, which is the real reason he flees from his father s home to Soweto. Obviously I am not anything like Kgosi. Deep down Kgosi is a good young man who is trying to find his way in the world. He is simply going through the motions of being a teenager. He feels school is a waste of time as he is a business-minded person and could easily do without school. Beyond that he is a cool kid, Stuurman said.Stuurman is best known for roles in television productions such as Tshisa, Gauteng Maboneng and Invictus alongside Matt Damon and Morgan Freeman in 2009, among others.He said being with Scandal while also being with MTV Shuga Down South as a gay young man in the SABC health and lifestyle drama series was a blessing for his craft. I never got to study acting professionally. I am grateful for the opportunities I have had in my acting career. Shuga is an honour on its own and playing a gay character on the show gives my acting the edge. I like the fact that Reggie is not a typical gay character. Unlike most gay characters Reggie still plays sport, has great graffiti skills. He is the kind of gay who does not offend and gives a fresh and respectful perspective on homosexuality, he said.But what Stuurman loves the most about Reggie is the fact that at 16 years, Reggie is SA s youngest gay character on the small screen. I love the fact that people get to see a different Given Stuurman almost at the same time on two different platforms. I am a delinquent and troublesome teenager on e.tv with Scandal and I get to tell a different story about the LGTBI community through Reggie. I could not have asked for more, Stuurman said.SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabongas@thenewage.co.za