As South Africa battles high levels of violence against children, activists have called for more focus on prevention rather than post-violence intervention.This as South Africa marks Child Protection Week to raise awareness and educate communities about the rights and responsibilities of children.Former president of the International Society for the Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect president and activist for children s rights Joan van Niekerk said more funding should be channelled into services aimed at preventing violence against children. As we mark Child Protection Week, we stand in a very bad place. We are not doing nearly enough to protect children. We are not funding early intervention programmes. The focus is on after-care programmes. Parents need to be empowered on how to raise their children without violence and neglect. We need to reduce violence in the homes and communities, she said.Research shows that children, especially those who are under the age of five, are easy targets of violence as they more likely to be abused and murdered in their homes. We are a damaged society that needs to be healed and to be able to break the cycle of violence. We ve seen a large number of cases of violence against children in South Africa and men and women who are violent to children, Prof Shanaaz Mathews, Children s Institute director at UCT, said. We ve seen an intergenerational cycle of violence. Although statistics of the number of children who were killed countrywide since the beginning of 2017 could not be verified, 19 children have been murdered in the Western Cape since January this year.Van Niekerk said even though programmes such as the child support grants had assisted in alleviating poverty and hunger in poor communities, some children were still not eating enough nutritional food. In KZN, 50% of children are not well fed and some are dying due to lack of nutrition, she said.A number of factors including poverty, substance abuse, poor living conditions and the availability of weapons in communities are cited as reasons behind violence targeting children.Zodidi Mhlanazodidim@thenewage.co.za