Ignoring persistent booing, Baleka Mbete, the national chairperson of the ANC, said disagreements within the tripartite alliance were not new and should be addressed internally.She urged those who were unhappy with the ANC to air their grievances internally rather than boo leaders publicly as it only served to make their enemies happy. Mbete was the main speaker at the Cosatu May Day rally in Durban s Gugu Dlamini park yesterday.The rally started with about 11000 workers marching from King Dinizulu park, through the city centre to the park. With the exception of former KZN premier, Senzo Mchunu, all ANC leaders were booed by an angry crowd, which was identified as being from Inchanga, KwaMashu and Inanda.The same crowd booed Sihle Zikalala, the KZN ANC chair, who dislodged Mchunu who was backed by the SACP in 2015. Mbete said ANC leaders were prepared for the disruptions as they knew it was going to happen. She said they came to the rally because they were leaders, who could not decline invitations from alliance partners. The alliance led by the ANC is very, very important comrades. It is of most greater and most strategic importance than our anger against each other. It is not that we are not seeing that you are angry but it means we need to sit down and resolve our differences through dialogue, Mbete said.It took the intervention of James Nxumalo, the former eThekwini mayor and SACP KZN chair to calm the angry crowd who continued to boo intermittently.Speaking earlier, Zikalala, who was unfazed by the booing, told workers that Cosatu was the only federation in the country that had the workers interests at heart. He said the ANC government was willing to listen to Cosatu s grievances when the union federation tabled them. Cosatu always corrects us. We are still going to listen to it when it talks to us as it is the only federation that is the voice of the people, he said.SACP s second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila said they had no issues with the ANC but with President Jacob Zuma, hence their call for him to step down. Cosatu s second deputy president Zingiswa Losi urged their shop stewards to listen to the workers as the new unions springing up every day will exploit the gap and recruit them.SIHLE MAVUSOnews@thenewage.co.za