Farmers in Thembalethu told Water and Sanitation Deputy Minister Pamela Tshwete that the lack of drinking water for their livestock was a serious concern and needed urgent attention.This was during a meeting held at the Thembalethu Community Hall by the deputy minister with small emerging farmers in the area.Tshwete visited the area after the farmers raised their concerns.About 200 farmers under the banner of Thembalethu Farmer s Unity, including community members, requested that the department visit the area and listen to their plight, especially those that were related to water and land to cultivate vegetables.The emerging farmers started in 1999 and the group has increased.These men and women are farming in different categories like food production, cattle, pigs and poultry.A group member of food production said the farmers had to travel a far distance to get water from the Skaapkop River, but due to the dirty water productivity was compromised.Some of the issues raised during the engagement with Tshwete was that the farmers needed harvesting tanks, boreholes and dignified sanitation.The members also demanded licence sfor water use authorisation, land ownership and fencing to protect the produce and livestock from loitering or trespassing into public spaces. We hope the engagement with the minister will help us sort this problem out, farmer Lincoln Zantsi said. Water is a very serious problem. We are very grateful that Tshwete came to listen to our plight. Last year alone, we lost a lot of livestock. Farmers here have to travel a distance to get water to irrigate the production and for livestock to drink. A resident who attended the event said: We would appreciate if the authorities could speed up the land ownership issue. This is very critical. Land to farm is very important, it s time that people own land for future generations. Tshwete said the department would engage other departments like human settlements, agriculture, public works and transport to unlock the issues. The most important thing that we need to facilitate is that these farmers get a lease agreement so that other departments can assist them, Tshwete said.George municipality mayor Melvin Naik committed the town council to assist the farmers.MPUMI KIVAprovinces@thenewage.co.za