Professional ballet dancer turned chef Lorna Maseko finds cooking therapeutic as she has to juggle various other roles in her life including TV presenting.The 34-year-old beauty who grew up in Alexandra township, says her passion for food has always been there but was masked by her other love, dancing.She joined the South African Ballet Theatre company as the only black professional after shewzwas originally contracted at Ballet Theatre Afrikan.Maseko now presents her own cooking show, The Hostess, after her love for the pots was reignited after she entered a cooking competition.Broadcast on SABC3 on Tuesdays at 8.30pm, The Hostess with Lorna Maseko is a 13-part cooking and lifestyle reality series for food and entertainment that sees the hostess whipping up delicious meals while joined by the who s who of Mzansi entertainment.The New Age recently spoke to the Top Billing presenter with a penchant for food.Most people probably know by now that you are a ballet dancer turned chef, how did that transition come about?I have always had a love for food. I think going on to Celebrity Master Chef South Africa just inspired me more to get in the kitchen and do what I love.I find being in the kitchen and cooking very therapeutic.What do you value most about your passion for cooking?I value the fact that you can make money out of it.As an entrepreneur I think it s very important to do what you love.And at the moment chefs, cooks and home meals are seen as such rock stars at the moment, they are the in thing .I am combining things that I love to get what I want, being a businesswoman and cooking.We are now at the start of a cold season, winter, please share with us how can people enjoy a hearty meal that is healthy. Please give us one recipe.Protein is very important in your diet because it helps burn fat more quickly in the body. Prepared well, shank, oxtail and soup is always good. And always include vegetables in your soup.People generally get lazy in winter so buying ready-made meals is still an option but find ways to change it up and make your meal healthier. People must also remember that a healthy meal does not have to be boring. Enjoy the food you prepare.How do you plan on paving the way for aspiring chefs through your work? Are there plans in place to share your knowledge of food especially food from other countries with those who aspire to cook?I think with anything that you do, hard work and perseverance will always work in your favour. I have made a lot of business mistakes but I ve learnt from them. Young entrepreneurs need to do what they love, so what you re passionate about, make sure you get the right people to mentor you. Nothing worthwhile comes easily, so don t be afraid to work hard.How do you juggle your presenting career, with your family life and as a cook?I try my best, life isn t about juggling and finding a balance. You find a rhythm in what you do and you make it work.People in your life know and understand why you are building (a career) and that means the days and times I work longer and don t see them, they ll understand. I am a girl from Alex and have made it this far I haven t even reached where I want to be so it will take time and my family understands.news@thenewage.co.za