THE pride that comes with winning the Absa Premiership on their own could be the reason why log leaders Bidvest Wits and second placed Mamelodi Sundowns are adamant they don t need favours from anyone. But Maritzburg United coach Fadlu Davids, who was yesterday named coach of the month for April, finds himself in a position of pressure where he can decide the destiny of the league.Davids, a legend at the Team of Choice as a player, can put a dent in Sundowns title hopes when the two teams meet next week. While Pitso Mosimane worries about the resurgent coastal side, Gavin Hunt is likely to cheer on Maritzburg, with the hope that they beat Sundowns and give the Clever Boys some breathing space at the top. Davids, who is still noncommittal on whether he wants to coach Maritzburg on a permanent basis from next season, admitted his side could still play a role in where the title ends up. We played Wits and we still have to play Sundowns. We are going into the game thinking about our own needs and making the top eight, not anyone else. Both Sundowns and Wits are fantastic teams with great coaches and different playing styles, Davids said. At the moment, it is in Wits hands but it is wide open. Sundowns are capable of winning all their games. It is for Wits to lose. I think it will go down to the last week of the season. It is really hard to make a prediction but you cannot write Sundowns off. Despite the biggest indication that he is doing well at Maritzburg, where the side is seventh on the log with 35 points and three matches to go, Davids heaped praise on the club s former coach Ernst Middendorp for laying the foundations of the team.The former Team of Choice goal scorer challenged young coaches in the country to work hard, rather than sitting around and moaning about not getting recognition. Coach Ernst put the structures together. We have great youngsters and a number of experienced players and that is what you need. We should empower yourselves as young coaches. We cannot just want recognition without working for it. I choose not to talk about my contract. My focus is on helping the team to finish in the top eight. We should have been consistent. We get too happy too soon after winning two games in a row. We should push ourselves more and adopt a mentality where we aim for bigger success, Davids said.The Team of Choice will welcome Platinum Stars at the Harry Gwala Stadium tomorrow at 7,30pm in an Absa Premiership match.mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za-Mmasekepe Matsebane