Another protest over housing hit Gauteng yesterday in Diepkloof as residents barricaded several main roads, including the Soweto Highway, with burning tyres and rocks.Many residents could not go to work and school due to roads being blocked.Pupils from Bopasenatla Secondary School said they were forced out of class by protesters who threatened them with stones. The protest got out of hand when metro police and the SAPS tried to disperse protesters and clear the roads but residents continued to regroup, causing police to fire stun grenades and use tear gas.Police dismissed reports from the community claiming a pupil was shot and killed in Zone 6 during the protest. A community leader, Themba Makhubela, said they were protesting over housing. We have a few areas where we have identified houses around Diepkloof and Johannesburg. Some are in the inner city, Makhubela said. We want to feel part of Johannesburg by staying in the city and being allocated houses in other areas. We want to experience the principle of integration of communities where coloureds, white and black people live in one area. He said he had also heard allegations of a pupil dying from a gunshot wound during the protest. The office of Gauteng premier sent a representative but the community refused to listen to him, demanding instead that housing MEC Paul Mashatile address them. Elsie Ngondo, a Diepkloof resident, said they were fighting for RDP houses, which, she said, were now being occupied by foreigners. We applied for RDP houses a long time ago but we are still homeless so we will continue to protest until we are heard, Ngondo said.Residents claimed police shot at them even though they were not damaging any property or roads. Capt Kay Makhubela said police fired rubber bullets because protesters were throwing stones at passing cars and barricading roads they were trying to clear. We have been trying to open the roads. We managed to open the main road and police are monitoring the area, Makhubela said.Gauteng human settlements spokesperson Keith Khoza said the department had met with protest leaders last Friday. Unfortunately there has been a breakdown in communication. The residents demanded to see the MEC but he was unavailable due to prior commitments. The MEC will be able to meet with them at a later stage, as he promised. The matter has not been finalised as the MEC will be meeting with community leaders, Khoza said.Two weeks ago, protests in Eldorado Park, Ennerdale, Orange Farm, Finetown and Klipspruit West were diffused after intervention from Mashatile and the Minister of Human Settlements, Lindiwe Sisulu.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAnews@thenewage.co.za