After a dismal season in the PSL Baroka FC find themselves in a position where they could still be relegated even if they win their last game of the season against Ajax Cape Town on Saturday.Last season s National First Division champions are bottom of the PSL standings with 25 points from 29 matches. They are a point behind 15th-placed Highlands Park and two behind Chippa United and Free State Stars. Baroka will meet Ajax on Saturday and if they do get a victory there, they will also need other results to go their way between Highlands Park and Mamelodi Sundowns and Chippa United and Free State Stars to have a chance at survival.If Chippa United and Free State Stars play to a draw, it will mean Chippa are safe from relegation even if Baroka beat Ajax as they would be equal on points. However, goal difference will mean that Baroka will either be relegated or finish 15th and qualify for promotion/ relegation play-offs provided Highlands Park don t collect points against Sundowns.The odds are stacked against Baroka as they have not won in six league matches and coach Kgoloko Thobejane admitted that it will take something close to a miracle for them to survive. It is too bad for us now because you can see we are still at the bottom and we are going to depend on other teams and us. We have to win at all costs, Thobejane said. If we don t win the last game, it ll mean we are out. We also can t say we are targeting the play-offs. But we still have that chance in the last game. Of the two teams also in danger of relegation, Chippa United and Free State Stars are both on 27 points, so anything can happen when they play one another. Having said that, we still believe we have a chance if we beat Ajax Cape Town and other teams lose like one of Free State Stars and Highlands Park. Ajax are also desperate for points in their quest to qualify for the top eight. I ve also not accepted that we ll go down but if it s the time then we ll accept that we ve been relegated, but we still have a game to play, Thobejane said-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za