IF cyber crime continues to compound at its present rate, it could be a $2 trillion (R26 trillion) crime by 2019, a threefold increase from 2015, a Security Intelligence report says. The fresh ransomware attack of unprecedented proportions, estimated to have swept through 150 countries, and affecting massive global organisations such as FedEx, Britain’s National Health Service and the German rail network has highlighted the severe implications of cyber crime on businesses. As companies all over the world, including South Africa, scramble to ensure their IT systems are robust enough to withstand an attack, Santam says that insuring against cyber crime is critical. Celeste Buitendag a cyber underwriting specialist at SHA Specialist Underwriters, a wholly owned subsidiary of Santam, says over the past year, 38% of businesses surveyed by SHA have been struck by cybercrime. This statistic suggests a South African business is now far more likely to fall victim to cyber crime than to more conventional crimes like robbery or theft. Buitendag says most business people seem to feel relatively safe from cyber attacka – 66% of the sample of 200. “Ransomware attacks are extremely prevalent in South Africa and we receive many phone calls from businesses following an incident where their computers have been encrypted and a ransom requested in the form of Bitcoin currency.” Buitendag says there is often a perception that cyber criminals only target really big organisations where there is the potential to extort millions. “In effect, the cyber crime world works much like the more conventional crime like robbery or theft – where criminals range from petty thieves through to large, organised crime syndicates. “ A freelancer who works off his or her laptop in a café is as much at risk of having data seized in a ransomware attack as a large corporate organisation. “Ransomware is indiscriminate so long as there is a vulnerability in your computer, such as an update that has not been installed. “And in fact the ‘one-man shop’ is probably more likely to pay the ransom because they are less likely to have backed up their data as regularly as a larger company with a full-time IT staff complement. This makes them an attractive target and explains why the average ransom amount has increased from around $350 to $1000, the latest report from Symantec says. Buitendag says what makes cyber crime such a complicated issue is that it is a moving target with creative and highly sophisticated cyber criminals constantly learning to bypass firewalls, anti-virus software and outdated software. “The types of crime are myriad. Ransomware attacks involve encrypting all the data on a company’s hard drives and servers and demanding a ransom in exchange for returning the data. “Phishing uses fake e-mail messages to get personal information which is then exploited, whereas hacking involves shutting down or misusing websites or networks. The list goes on.” Even though she believes cyber crime in SA is grossly under-reported, a 2016 report said 8.8 million South Africans were the target of online or cybercrime last year. She says statistics were expected to rise when the Protection of Personal Information Act comes into effect, it is anticipated that the regulator will have finalised the regulations and processes by the end of this year. “Once the true picture emerges, hopefully more businesses will start to take the threat more seriously. “In the US, spending on insurance against cybercrime grew from $1bn two years ago to $2.5bn last year,” Buitendag said. -SELLO RABOTHATA|sellor@thenewage.co.za