Challenged by former finance minister Pravin Gordhan to say whether it had been captured, Denel absolutely rejected the allegation yesterday.The board also said Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba would be meeting Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown to discuss the impasse with the national Treasury over VR Laser Asia.Denel faced some critical and hostile questions, which went to the heart of the state-owned enterprise s credibility, when it appeared before the public enterprises portfolio committee.Much to the irritation of some committee members, not all the members of Denel s board honoured an invitation to be at the meeting. Putting a question to Denel, Gordhan said it was the arms manufacturer s responsibility to assure the portfolio committee and the public that it was serving the national interest.Gordhan also claimed that there was a common practice in the capture process. He said a board of a state-owned company would be changed, executives would be suspended and new ones would be brought in and they would be compliant people. We ve seen similar patterns with Denel. Persuade us this has nothing to do with state capture, Gordhan said.Board chairperson Daniel Mantsha said Denel was deeply concerned about allegations of state capture. He said a perception had been created that because of a business relationship that had led to the formation of Denel Asia, that Denel was captured. All I m saying to you is there is fiction and facts and perceptions are based on fiction. Denel is not captured by anyone, Mantsha said.Explaining the relationship with VR Laser South Africa, Mantsha said the company had signed a contract in connection with the Hoefyster armoured vehicle in 2013, before the present board came into office. This contract was valued at around R400m but last year Denel had spent close to R3bn in procurement. Out of this, almost R245m or so was spent on black companies and the black companies included VR. He said, by just zooming in on procurement spending, Denel was being asked if VR has captured Denel. Show me the figures. That is not the case. I think the concerns you must raise is that maybe it s not captured by a Gupta, maybe it s captured by a Dlamini. On the suspension of two senior former executives, whom he did not name, Mantsha said they had entered into a transaction that was worth close to R1bn. That debt has placed Denel under serious financial pressure. The two executives were suspended and then subsequently parted ways with Denel. About the Gupta family, Mantsha said there was nothing wrong for a Gupta associate or a Gupta person to enter into a lawful contract with Denel.Former public protector Thuli Madonsela had done a thorough investigation to see if there was anything wrong with the contract with VR Laser. Denel fully cooperated. The report as it stands today did not make any adverse finding towards Denel. The report indicated there should be a second phase of the investigation by the office of the public protector, which will also include the allegations made against Denel. Denel said it had thought that VS Laser Asia would give it a footprint into the Asian arms market. However, it had followed a directive not to start trading. It said it would not and had not given VR Laser money to start up.DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@thenewage.co.za