Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared he is ready to go to Marikana to speak to the widows of the 44 mine workers killed four years ago.He said ANC veteran Winnie Mandela had advised him to go to Marikana. He told her he would. She will advise and she will lead me, he said in the national Assembly yesterday.As a leader, he was accountable and when he goes to Marikana he will confront any situation where accountability is needed, he said.Yesterday, Ramaphosa had to field gruelling questions about his recent apology for Marikana, the ratings downgrade, the electoral system, and whether he would vote against President Jacob Zuma when the house took a no-confidence vote.He was also asked about sex workers and the spat between former police minister Nathi Nhleko and the head of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, Robert McBride.The question about Marikana came from EFF chief Floyd Shivamba, who wanted to know what he had apologised for. Speaker Baleka Mbete, said he did not need to respond, but he did.Ramaphosa said a student at Rhodes University recently asked him about Marikana and whether he was prepared to go to the area.Later, the student told him: Deputy President, I asked you that question because I wanted to understand precisely what your conscience is telling you. Rampahosa said he apologised for the language, which he said was inappropriate and unfortunate, that he used in his email calling for police intervention in the Marikana strikes.He said: I was trying to stop further killings. For me, this was sparked off by the killing of the 10 people who had died earlier. The killing of those people had happened in a most gruesome manner. While members of the police were killed, the majority of those who died were mine workers.He explained at the Rhodes meeting, he said, that for most of his life he worked for mine workers. I said to myself, I could never have mine workers killed. Honourable Shivambu, that was what I apologised for, he said as he spoke in Parliament about Marikana for the first time.An estimated 44 people were killed between August 10 and September 20, 2012. At least 34 were mine workers.dennisc@thenewage.co.za