Families of some heroes who contributed to the struggle against apartheid, have cried foul that while millions of rands will be splashed out next month for the June 16 commemorations, they still live in abject poverty.This week The New Age came face to face with the misery of the forgotten families of the Soweto uprising heroes Hector Pieterson and Mbuyisa Makhubu in Soweto.The Makhubus live in a sparsely furnished house, a stone s throw away from the Hector Pieterson Museum.Younger sister to Hector, Lulu Pieterson, lives in an incomplete structure in Soweto with her seven children while her mother is still in the same house she lived in during the 1976 uprising.Khulumani Support Group said many more families were part of about 100000 people who were excluded from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission s (TRC s) reparations programme.Khulumani director Marjorie Jobson said only 16000 people had benefited, leaving about 100000 with no remedies or access to justice and reparations. The strangest thing to me is that the Department of Justice has the means to write the policy regulation that will change that situation. For the past 20 years they have been resistant to produce the policy that will fix the situation, Jobson said.Department of Justice spokesperson Mthunzi Mhaga, said: We will address this issue today as part of our budget vote speech. An activist, Mandla Nyaqela, who represents the families, said their painful living conditions were inconsistent with the contributions of their sons to the struggle. Makhubu s sister, Ntsiki, whose brother is the 18-year-old captured carrying Pieterson who was shot in the Soweto uprising in 1976, said the upcoming June 16 celebrations were a mockery.Lulu also said the commemoration was an insult to her family. June 16 is an insult to me. Look at where I live? We re a forgotten family despite what happened to my brother, she said.Makhubu also said June 16 was a mockery to them. June 16 brings more pain, we re being mocked. June 16 is an insult to us, she said.The DA has also been accused of reneging on promises to assist the families during Mmusi Maimane s campaign for Gauteng premier in 2014.The families claim Maimane recruited and used Pieterson and Raul Makhubu, brother to Mbuyisa. I told him my kids were hungry, there was no food at home and all he gave me was R20 that he asked for from someone who was close to him, Lulu said.Nyaqela added that when Makhubu s brother, Raul, died not a single DA member was there. His son died last week and he was buried through donations .Maimane s spokesperson, Mabine Seabe, yesterday declined to comment on the allegations against the DA leader.Lulu, a mother of seven, said she had been denied space to sell her postcards at the Hector Pieterson Museum.The museum was opened on June 16, 2002 and is run by the city of Johannesburg s arts, culture and heritage department.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za