Kjell Jonevret reckons he is naive to think his stuttering Orlando Pirates team can win every game. It’s a fact many have known, given the topsy-turvy season Bucs have endured so far. Yet it has seemingly taken the past two results for Jonevret to open his eyes to the reality of the shambles the team really is in. For Jonevret and the Bucs fans, the belief, if not a wish now, has been that the team could end the season in a top eight position. And improving results under Jonevret’s guidance haven’t suggested such an expectation was lofty. But the last two results, the 2-0 defeat to rivals Mamelodi Sundowns at the weekend and the 1-0 loss to titlechasing Bidvest Wits last week, have began to sow doubt in the Swede’s mind about whether he wasn’t too ambitious to aim as high with an average team. “I don’t know if I said so exactly,” Jonevret said when asked if he still harboured hopes of a top eight finish. “I’m so naive to think we could win every game. But I think we need to win tomorrow at least (against Bloemfontein Celtic). “There are opportunities in all the remaining three games. We have Celtic, Ajax Cape Town and Golden Arrows in the last match. We should fight on.” Still smarting from yet another loss to rivals Sundowns, the Buccaneers travel to Dr Molemela Stadium tomorrow under intense pressure to chalk up an away win. With the two consecutive defeats, Jonevret’s side have dropped two places to 10th spot with 31 points. This has been a direct consequence of lethargic performances, led by inconsistent displays from key players such as Mpho Makola, Happy Jele, Tendai Ndoro and a whole set of goalkeepers. Makola has only provided two assists in 24 matches in the league this season and is yet to score a league goal. “We had two good weeks before this past week and we knew it would be tough against two top sides in the league at the moment,” Jonevret said. “But it’s a whole new game in three days down in Bloemfontein and we have to bounce back. There’s lots of talent but not good enough to beat such top teams at the moment. “I think we don’t have the skills right now to break down a defence like the Sundowns one. OK, we create chances but we don’t do more than that . -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA