South Africa was trying to avert more downgrades in the short-term by engaging ratings agencies. Hopefully, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said in Parliament yesterday, these engagements, and progress in economic development areas, would improve South Africa’s credit ratings in the medium term. To be able to borrow and refinance debt, he said, credit rating agencies were critical as they rated public debt. “Therefore their independent assessment of our creditworthiness and economic prospects are influential with investors.” The Ministry, he said in his national Treasury budget vote, would continue to engage intensively with all the rating agencies “to take them into our confidence on ongoing reforms, growth initiatives and our commitment to measured fiscal consolidation and improving the governance and sustainability of our state-owned companies”. “There is no magic bullet to improving our credit rating. “We must implement the National Development Plan (NDP) and the 9-point plan,” Gigaba said. “Progress in our economic development programmes will result in improved credit ratings, business and investor confidence.” The National Treasury, he said, would do its part by managing the fiscus prudently and sustainably. It would also give domestic and international investors confidence in South Africa’s macro-economic stability. The National Treasury, he said, would also facilitate a budget process, which distributed resources to the programmes that would have the most impact in carrying out government policies. The debt levels of state-owned companies would also be closely monitored “to ensure they do not pose undue risk to themselves or the country”. State procurement would also be used strategically to ensure value for money and economic transformation through targeted procurement from designated groups. “Ultimately, however, the government as a whole and especially the economic cluster, must work together to implement structural reforms required to unlock growth, speedily conclude outstanding policy processes and stabilise and revitalise ailing state-owned companies.” Gigaba said the executive leadership of the Finance Ministry was absolutely clear that its priorities were inclusive growth and economic transformation as spelled out by the NDP. He said: “Social justice cannot be fully attained if we maintain the status quo. “Therefore, economic transformation should prioritise, among other objectives, changing the structure, ownership and institutions of our economy to include all South Africans in opportunity and wealth creation, particularly marginalised groups such as black people, women and youth.” DENNIS CRUYWAGEN dennisc@thenewage.co.za