The mayor of Frances Baard district Buyiswa Ximba said that the unqualified audits the municipality had received for the past five years had laid a solid foundation.Ximba was speaking during the tabling of her budget vote in the special council meeting last week.She said a lot had changed but more support was needed in the local municipalities such as Dikgatlong, Phokwane and Magareng. An achievement only marred by the audit outcomes of our local municipalities, however, this has steadily been changing towards the positives, she said.In highlighting the achievement the district municipality has achieved, Ximba said an amount of R1.8m has been invested in assisting over 185 families over the past five years through disaster management. A total of 180 volunteer fire fighters have been trained in various disaster management competencies. We have established three fire protection association in the district to help with the combatting of veld fires on farms, she said.She said they had also developed disaster management plans for all the four local municipalities and the district.Ximba also said it was of importance that the district was kept clean and safe for the well being of the society. The environmental health unit implemented a waste clean up project aimed at collecting and removing waste from open areas and from areas where no services are rendered in Warrenton and Barkly West. Through the project 12 job opportunities for the unemployed members of the society were created, she said.Ximba said besides a 50% cut for the next financial year, they were able to allocate funds for capital projects to the local municipalities. The district municipality will only be able to help its local municipalities with operation and maintenance of equipment and infrastructure in the new financial year. The support to local municipalities might suffer because of the financial constraints. A service level agreement was approved by the council to ensure that technical support will continue even if funding of projects becomes difficult, she said.Ximba also said air pollution campaigns were introduced at schools and in the communities to raise awareness on the different pollutants and diseases and how to mitigate the effects of air pollution at household level. There is a master plan we have drafted on how projects should improve and time frames as to when they should be completed. The money is actually never enough and that is the big problems, we have funded a lot of projects in the number of years, she said.The district had also allocated more than R100m to local municiplities for planning development and waste water management.Each of the four local municipalities received R2.5m to accelerate service delivery issues in their areas.The municipal manager Mamikie Bogatsu said they were working very hard to ensure that they assisted municipalities in every way possible so that they could be sustainable and served the people.Furthermore it was announced that the municipality would be tightening their belts and cutting costs on a number of things. In an attempt to invest more capital expenditures at local municipalities, operating expenditures were drastically reduced in categories such as advertisements, bursaries and training, catering, entertainment, resettlement cost, travel and accommodation, outsourse services, sporting activities and music fesivals, municipality said.Director of infrastructure Peet van der Walt said the unit was key in a sense that whenever there was break down they were the one that had to fix it. It s very difficult to plan ahead because we cannot foresee that a pipe will burst, it is a day to day maintenance. We do assist local municipalities in addressing the issues of infrastructure. There is a master plan we have drafted on how projects should improve and time frames as to when they should be completed. The money is actually never enough and that is the big problems, we have funded a lot of projects in the number of years, he said.TIISETSO MANOKOtiisetsom@thenewage.co.za