Local businesses look set to get a fresh boost after the Zimbabwe government announced its decision to lift the ban on imported goods following pressure from its trading partners, including South Africa.Businesses were hit hard by import controls introduced by South Africa s neighbour exactly a year ago to boost Zimbabwe s ailing industries.Zimbabwe Industry and Commerce Minister Mike Bimha said the ban had achieved its aims and the government would come up with other means to ensure industries continued to gain from the successes brought by the ban. To address the threat of retaliation from our trading partners, the government will replace the import management programme with a local content policy, Bimha said.The SA Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SACCI) yesterday welcomed the lifting of the ban, saying it would go a long way in increasing intra-Africa trade.SACCI president Zeph Ndlovu said intra-Africa trade was at a low and needed to bolstered. We can t meet the needs of our people if we close our borders. We need to work together and increase intra-Africa trade. So we welcome this. We are glad common sense finally prevailed, Ndlovu said.Just a month after the strict import controls were introduced, businesses in Limpopo had lost about R100m.The Musina Chamber of Commerce said several shops were forced to close because of the lack of business in the region.Musina s business is 80% dependent on Zimbabwean traders. The controversial ban meant cross-border traders from the neighbouring country were no longer coming to buy local products.Simon Rakhalaru of Mahi Discount Shop in Musina said the ban had hit local industries hard. We ve been recording our lowest sales since the import ban was introduced. Most of our customers are either coming from outside or travelling from other provinces going to Zimbabwe, Rakhalaru said. It s been worse in the past two months because of a new shopping mall in Musina so the lifting of the ban comes as good news. Bimha revealed that the ban triggered a lot of challenges, including continued appetite for imports by consumers, poor quality and delays in delivery of goods by the local producers. There was incessant smuggling through the porous border posts resulting in an increased black market, Bimba said. There was also monopolistic behaviour by some local producers and the threat of retaliation from the country s neighbouring trading partners such as South Africa and Zambia. He said the major benefit was that some of the companies that were exporting products to Zimbabwe before the ban ended up setting up plants in the country, creating employment.MTHOKOZISI DUBEmtokozisid@thenewage.co.za