Strained relations between the ANC and its alliance partners are set to come under sharp focus at a meeting of the ruling party s national executive committee (NEC) next week.ANCYL president Collen Maine said the ANC s succession battle had exacerbated already existing tensions within the ANC-led tripartite alliance. This comes as the ANC prepares for its NEC meeting scheduled for next Friday. We cannot allow the alliance partners to dictate to the ANC on who must lead it. Alliance partners must not believe that they can survive without each other, we need the alliance now more than ever before, Maine told The New Age.Maine s comments come against the background of the ANC having a raft of contentious political issues to resolve. Brian Molefe made a shock return to Eskom as CEO earlier this week.Added to the mix was the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco), endorsing deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the reins of the ANC presidency. Maine, making reference to the SACP s posture towards the ruling party on the leadership of President Jacob Zuma, said the ANCYL was concerned about the communists persistent attacks on Zuma s character. If the SACP want to win the elections, they must campaign as individuals. The leadership of the party is more interested in leading in the ANC, that s the problem and we must resolve that, Maine said. The conference of the ANC must be left to ANC branches. Maine said that whoever emerged as ANC president after December, the leader should reflect the image of the ANC being a broad church . The ANC has communists, nationalists and capitalists. You can t just elect a single stream of leaders, they must reflect the character of the ANC. When you elect leaders and disregard nationalists, they won t feel welcome in the ANC, and if you also disregard capitalists and communists, they won t feel like they belong in the party. A senior ANC Cabinet member said the ANC s National Working Committee meeting on Monday would set the tone for the ANC NEC gathering. We ll see what the thought processes of the officials will be. ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said he did not want to pre-empt the outcome of the discussions at the meeting.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za