It took a year-and-a-half for Lesotho national Teboho Jousse to get justice for being called a stupid dom kaffir in a Bloemfontein mall parking lot in 2015.Hendrika van Zyl, the woman responsible for the racist utterance was recently ordered to pay him R15000 in damages after he took her to court.Jousse said on the day of the incident he was driving his car through the parking area of the Fleurdal Mall about 9am. The parking area was not full and he drove across open parking bays to where he wanted to leave his vehicle. He noticed a white VW vehicle that was still far from him (he estimated about 200m).There was another vehicle that was parked in a parking bay. At the time of the incident he was accompanied by his wife. After he safely crossed the lane he parked his vehicle and then heard the white VW s hooter.The white VW stopped at the back of his vehicle. A white woman, the respondent, alighted from the VW and approached his vehicle. He was preparing to get out of his car. The door of his vehicle was still locked but the window was open. His evidence was that she then shouted: What do you think you are doing? He then responded by saying to her that she should not talk to him like that. She in turn responded by saying: I will talk to you like that because you are a stupid dom kaffir . The court determined that the woman had discriminated against him and used hate speech by calling him the K-word in December 2015. The matter was also referred to the South African Human Rights Commission. Van Zyl has also been ordered to attend a human rights sensitisation programme regarding race relations in South Africa within a period of one month from the date of this order.She is also to make an unconditional written apology to the applicant within one month from the date of this order. In her defence she claimed that she never uttered the alleged harmful words instead she said ons bly in n kak land . The court said it found that on a balance of probabilities that Van Zyl had uttered and directed the words You stupid dom kaffir to Jousse.The court said it found that the words amounted to unfair discrimination and hate speech as set out in Sections 7 and 10 of the Prevention of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, No 4 of 2000. Magistrate AD van der Merwe said he was satisfied that Jousse was entitled to be awarded for damages. The use of the harmful words is completely unacceptable in the era of a free democracy, he said.Van der Merwe said having awarded the fine to be paid, he found that the amount claimed by the applicant was disproportionate to the facts of the case that should form the basis for such an award.In 2015 the Bloemfontein Equality Court ordered restaurant owner Patrick Prior to pay Central University of Technology lecturer Gilbert Makanda R80000 for calling him a kaffir .KAMOGELO SEEKOEIkamogelos@thenewage.co.za