The field rangers who have graduated at the North West Parks Board (NWPB) have been placed at various parks.The department of rural, environment and agricultural development (Read) spokesperson Betty Moleko said: The NWPB, an entity of Read, has appointed and placed 39 Field Rangers at various parks within the Bokone Bophirima Province as part of the skills development programme. The NWPB recently hosted an event to welcome and mark the appointment of the field rangers who have completed a one-year training course offered by the Southern African Wildlife College.Departmental MEC Manketsi Tlhape said the training programme is part of the provincial government s vision of addressing the triple challenges of inequality, poverty and unemployment.Earlier this year, the department said the North West provincial government will, before June this year, operate its own wildlife college, opening doors of learning to those interested in wildlife management and game ranging.Tlhape said this was important for the young people to grasp an opportunity offered to them. Parks security was imminent due to the persistent scourge of rhino poaching and continued security threats in some of the reserves, so this training has been prioritised, Tlhape said.The provincial government said it will intensify efforts of curbing rhino poaching through a wildlife academy.Moleko said the role of the academy was to create adequate skills and capacity in as far as training of field rangers . The need for the establishment of the wildlife academy is informed by the vision of the 5th provincial administration to rebrand, reposition and renew the province through generating the critical scarce skills that can enhance the biodiversity economy while creating jobs, reducing hunger and inequalities, Moleko said.Tlhape said the training programme is part of the provincial government s vision of addressing the triple challenges of inequality, poverty and unemployment. She urged the young people to be loyal in their duty. She emphasised that nature conservation was critical as it would benefit many generations to come. You are our ambassadors in your respective roles. Go and do your work diligently and make us proud. We are making efforts to rebrand, reposition and renew our province, you have a great role to play in these, she said.One of the members of the graduated group Stanely Mampe emphasised that their 12-months training period was never easy. He said he hoped that their contribution to conservation would go a long way. We envisage making a difference in the wildlife sector. We are here to preserve nature and we would like to see ourselves doing that responsibly. Mampe said.CHARLOTE HLANGWANEcharloteh@thenewage.co.za