As the country is in shock at the brutal murder of Karabo Mokoena who was beaten and set alight allegedly by her boyfriend, the bodies of two women were recovered in Soweto at the weekend.One of the bodies was found burnt beyond recognition and discovered at a dumping site in Mofolo Soweto yesterday. People were picking over the dumping site when they came across the body and alerted the police. Our preliminary forensic investigation revealed that it is the body of a female, police Capt Mavela Masondo said.The other body was discovered on Saturday in Tladi, Soweto with head wounds.Masondo said that community members alerted police about the body lying in an open field. Paramedics were called and they certified the woman dead.He said that in both incidents the motive for the murders was unknown and the bodies were still not identified.These recent murders have sparked outrage with scores of women telling their tales of abuse by their boyfriends or kidnappers.Meanwhile, Mokoena s murder has led to other women coming forward about their own plight.A Twitter user identifying herself as Alexandra Buki Deen revealed how she was abused by a kidnapper before she managed to get away.She said that she was on her way home from Maponya Mall when she was kidnapped by an unknown man next to Bara taxi rank in Johannesburg.The man grabbed and forced her into his car, threatening to kill her if she did anything stupid. While he was driving, he swore at me and told me he was going to rape and kill me, constantly calling me bitch and slut, she said.She said that while driving they headed to a very dark road while he held her hand. I tried to kick the door and he hit me while I was kicking the door trying to open it. When I finally opened the door, and about to jump he grabbed my hand. At this point I was standing on the door rail, he was pulling my arm and I was looking at the roof of his car. I jumped. He was still holding on to my arm, the car dragged me for a few seconds. When I opened my eyes I had to get up and ran, She said.Alexandra was left badly bruised and lost her teeth in the attack.The ANC Women s League yesterday said that it was unfortunate that in South Africa we celebrate Mother s Day in the midst of inhumane crimes against women. The number of deaths of young women at the hands of their partners is of great concern. The SA Medical Research Council reports that 56% of female killings are committed by intimate partners. The unbearable legacies of colonialism and apartheid which perpetuate inequality, unemployment and poverty is much felt by mothers who are single-handedly raising their children, Meokgo Matuba said.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAnews@thenewage.co.za