Gauteng police have arrested three suspects believed to be part of a syndicate linked to the kidnapping and robbing of business people.Police spokesperson Col Lungelo Dlamini said the suspects were arrested on Thursday night after they had already spent more than R25000 belonging to an Ethiopian businessman who had been blindfolded and tied up at a house in Kensington. The police also impounded a hired vehicle and confiscated a licensed firearm. His family, who had suspicions that something might have gone wrong, contacted the police. This happened after the members of the provincial investigation unit were alerted about suspects who were demanding a ransom from the family of the businessman while they were fraudulently using his bank card to buy luxuries including clothing and jewellery at an East Rand store, Dlamini said.The victim had been collected at OR Tambo International Airport to conclude a business deal and taken by a bogus businessman to a house in Kensington where he was held hostage. In a matter of few hours the suspects were taken into custody and a businessman, who appeared to have suffered under the hands of his kidnappers, was rescued, Dlamini said.The police said the suspects may be linked to other cases where business people had been robbed while en route to their destinations from OR Tambo International Airport. The suspects will be charged with armed robbery, kidnapping and fraud in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court today.Police have appealed to business people to be careful of invitations to discuss business deals in private dwellings. Meanwhile, there has been little progress in apprehending suspects who robbed the Competition Commission s deputy commissioner, Hardin Ratshisusu, on Thursday night in Midrand. Ratshisusu was mugged at gunpoint at the entrance of his complex in Midrand as he was getting off a shuttle from OR Tambo International Airport. It seems he was followed from the airport, Competition Commission spokesperson Sipho Ngwema said. He was not harmed but all his belongings were taken during the traumatic incident. The deputy commissioner was returning from a SADC competition meeting in Botswana. Provincial police spokesperson Lt Kay Makhubela appealed to anyone with information on the incident to contact the police.There have been a number of kidnapping cases involving foreign nationals in South Africa, including Cape Town businessman Golam Mustafa, who was kidnapped in December 2016 and found in the house of one of the suspects two days later after a co-conspirator informed the police.The kidnappers demanded an amount of R10m from Mustafa s family and also demanded that they sell properties and cars. In September last year, the police found the body of a Zambian businessman who had been reported missing a week earlier. Sajjad Ahmed Abbasi was reported missing when he didn t return to his hotel room in Sandton.DIKELEDI RAMABOPAntombin@thenewage.co.za