Small, medium and micro-sized enterprises (SMMEs) should be a bigger priority as political, business and other African leaders gather at events such as the World Economic Forum (WEF) held in Durban last week to shape global, regional and industry agendas.A sector that represents the economic future of the continent is still not being heard by the people shaping economic policies.This is according to Anton van Heerden, managing director and executive vice-president, Africa &amp; Middle East at Sage, who said: Our recent research shows that 49% of small businesses in South Africa don t feel fairly represented in the country s political decision making. Their limited inclusion at forums such as the WEF Africa simply confirms that policymakers should allow more time to really understand and provide solutions addressing their concerns. Small and medium businesses create wealth for families and communities as well as much-needed jobs for local people. Small businesses create two thirds of all the jobs in most economies and represent 98% of all businesses. I m pleased that Lindiwe Zulu, Minister of Small Business Development, acknowledged the role of small and medium businesses in addressing inequality and poverty in one of the few talks at the WEF to focus on small business. It s also good to see that the data affordability issues facing small business are being addressed. We have raised our concern before that business builders are not a priority in forums like Davos and we once again urge multilateral institutions, big business and policy makers to make space for them at the table. This is also why we launched the Forum for Business Builders recently; a platform that we hope will come to represent the voice of small business owners both locally and globally. Van Heerden said that the launch of the South Africa Internet for All project last week, in partnership between the government of South Africa and the WEF, was welcome. One of its aims will be to explore how Internet for All can better support the development of small and medium businesses. We d love to see more initiatives like this, with more emphasis on listening to business builders to find out how policymakers can support their growth, he said.Sello Rabothatasellor@thenewage.co.za