THEIR season has been nothing short of a shambles, but Orlando Pirates could still have a say in the destiny of the league championship. Mired in mid-table, the Buccaneers don t appear to have a lot to fight for except a top-eight finish and the Nedbank Cup silverware this season.Yet with two upcoming matches this week against log leaders Bidvest Wits tonight and fellow title-chasing Mamelodi Sundowns on Sunday Pirates could put a big spanner in the works. Wits are top of the table with 51 points while Sundowns are hot on their heels, second on 50 points with five matches left. Of all the five remaining fixtures, only Pirates seem to be a formidable foe, with the potential to derail Wits, as well as Sundowns.The Brazilians face Platinum Stars in another PSL match tonight, before they travel to Orlando Stadium on Sunday. Standing in their way to the league glory are Maritzburg United and relegation-threatened Baroka and Highlands Park. The Buccaneers suffered a humiliating 6-0 loss to rivals Sundowns in the first round, where players such as Thabo Matlaba and Thamsanqa Gabuza misfired.The scars of the Loftus Stadium defeat are still visible and that should be motivation enough to go for revenge. But tonight, though, it s eighth-placed Bucs against Wits, who enjoy a huge 20-point lead that s unlikely to be bridged even in the case of five defeats. There is a strong sense that tonight s clash at Milpark Stadium could prove significant for Bucs coach Kjell Jonevret.The Swede has inspired a sense of positivity despite indifferent league results, but he hasn t beaten a big team since he arrived. We lost 2-1 to Wits at home and we are looking for revenge. The loss to Sundowns was the ugly one, so I think the players are really looking forward to avenge that, Jonevret said.He also sees the two games as tests for his team, saying: We played five games in a row against teams who have been near us in the league. We played Chiefs and SuperSport since I arrived here so we are looking forward to playing these matches. Now we are going to play the two best teams in the league and we are going to be underdogs in this game. It s a test for us to see how we perform. kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha