With the sword of an ANC-sanctioned removal hanging over him and a gruelling morning in front of former fellow MPs Brian Molefe declared he was not worried.The Eskom CEO has been in a precarious position since his sudden resignation as an ANC MP to return to the top post at the power utility. His return has been condemned and is the subject of a court application.At the weekend the ANC national executive committee resolved that Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown should rescind Molefe s reappointment. However, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe said the ANC would not tell Brown how to handle the matter. How you resolve it, we can t determine that for the minister. All we re saying is that the minister must resolve this matter before it goes to court because that decision translates into judiciary overreach, Mantashe reportedly said.Yesterday, it was almost business as usual as Brown, Eskom board chairperson Ben Ngubane and Molefe were at a meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on public accounts to attend a hearing into an audit report.The report was commissioned by Eskom into its coal supply agreements with miner Tegeta.After the meeting, standing in a fourth floor lift and surrounded by Eskom people, Molefe looked relaxed. No I m not worried. Whatever happens, he replied when asked about his future.Earlier in the meeting, Ngubane praised Molefe s contribution to Eskom and resolving the load shedding crisis that had beset South Africa in 2008.Eskom, he said, went the through a terrible time and experienced real chaos.It had appealed to the then Public Enterprises Minister for an experienced CEO. Molefe was appointed amid blackouts, which Ngubane called a national catastrophe.Molefe did not always endear himself to Scopa members. In responding to a question about Tegeta, he remarked it was like driving over the speed limit while in possession of a drivers licence. It doesn t make it right Mr Molefe. If the police officer doesn t give you a ticket Parliament will, ANC MP Vincent Smith said.-DENNIS CRUYWAGEN