The first budget of the merged former Tlokwe and Ventersdorp municipality is a whopping R1.8bn and is expected to reach the R2bn mark in the next financial year.Municipality 405 mayor Kgotso Khumalo presented the 2017-18 budget in Ikageng on Tuesday.Khumalo welcomed the consultations on the budget drafting process from residents of the two former local municipalities. We are able to present to this house a consolidated budget, Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and performance management for a single, uniting and integrating amalgamated municipality, he said.The new municipality is in the process of creating a new organogram. All permanent employees of council have been placed according to the new interim structure. The new structure has also been updated to accommodate urgent vacant posts that were identified by all directors of all the departments. A total of 449 vacancies need to be filled over a five-year period and within the standard budgetary principles and constraints. However, the priority for now will be to fill urgent vacant posts that were not filled due to a moratorium that has been in place over the last 12 months, he said.Other issues like the name and the location of the new municipal offices are issues under discussion as well. The location of the head offices may be taken even before we announce the name. We are guided solely by practical considerations that include proximity and accessibility to the majority of the residents, user-friendliness of facilities in terms of size, capacity, equipment and the ability to service its regional offices with ease, Khumalo said.The mayor said service delivery is the key focus of his administration for all residents in the new municipality. Bringing together two formerly separate entities has had its own teething problems. We have had to divide our focus in setting up building blocks of a new entity while attending to the respective service delivery challenges of the two towns, some of them diverse and unique, while others are similar and uniform, he said.The need to have a cost recovery plan and stamping out illegal power and water connections are some of the council s priorities. We were confronted with the threat of Eskom cutting off the electricity supply in Ventersdorp. Council negotiated and entered into a payment plan agreement to stave off the threat. The Ventersdorp municipality owed Eskom R61.1m, due to lack of revenue collection and illegal connections of electricity. To date, the municipality has paid an amount of R28.1m, Khumalo said.He said every ratepayer that is able to, should pay for the service they consume. Subsequent to the Eskom blackout threat the municipality decided to be tough on those business, government departments and households that owed the municipality a collective amount of R22.2m. Letters of demand were forwarded to all those in arrears, he said.The scourge of electricity theft through illegal connections was said to be rife in Ventersdorp and some parts of Potchefstroom. I appeal to all ratepayers to make arrangements and pay their municipal services accounts to avoid their homes being switched off and so we can also start a regular collection of revenue to pay off the Eskom debt, the mayor said.Khumalo highlighted a number of infrastructure projects completed and those pending in improving the outlook of the municipality: Reduction of electricity load from the 88/66KV network to the 132/11KV. This project will help to reduce load on four already capacitated substations in Tlokwe region The erection of an 8km 132Kv overhead line to link the CBD substation with the upcoming new Zeta substation. The erection of a new 132kv infeed overhead line from Hermes substation to Potch DS substation. This line will bring additional 300MVA capacity increase to Potchefstroom that will be used for spatial development as identified per our SDF. The municipality will also be upgrading 10km of medium voltage cable in our Ventersdorp region. This project will help to reduce power interruptions and also to accommodate more developmental initiatives in the town, he said.A massive housing development programme is also planned that will see a number of projects taking place in many townships in Potchefstroom and Ventersdorp. Resources have been allocated to uplift underdeveloped areas, maintain existing infrastructure and fulfil strategic priorities in the IDP, Khumalo said.The DA s Jans-Jurie Moolman said his party did not support the adoption of the budget. We don t have a problem with the actual budget but as a party, we have lost faith in the administration. This is because in the previous budget issues of irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure were recorded. Cases of procurement done without following supply chain rules were brought up but never followed up, he said.Moolman said it was the duty of council to have faith in the leadership because once there is a deficit of trust, there are problems. The mayor, as the custodian of municipal accountability, should lead by example together with the municipal manager but if no consequences follow those who do wrong, we have a problem hence we cannot be party to the adoption of the budget, he said.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za