City of Matlosana mayor, Maetu Kgaile has expressed grief after two women were brutally killed in Klerksdorp at the weekend.One of the victims, 15-year-old schoolgirl, Nombuyiselo Nombewu, was murdered before her remains were burnt.The other victim is a 58-year-old woman, who was found in a pool of blood, half naked inside her house.The two incidents happened in Jouberton township. Police in the province said the two are not linked despite happening almost at the same time.Kgaile said she wishes to express her outrage and indignation at the news of the gruesome murders. We learnt with shock and disbelief the death of Nombuyiselo Nombewu, following her disappearance from her home on Friday night. Her burnt body was discovered almost two days after she went missing and was reported as missing to the police by her mother. In the same vein we condemn the brutal murder of a 58-year-old Jouberton woman who was found half-naked in a pool of blood after being stabbed to death in her own house, the mayor said.She said people should respect the right to life for everyone in society. Whatever the motive for these murders, we condemn them in the strongest possible terms the killing of innocent souls. Human life is far too precious and irreplaceable. No one has the right to take away the life of another, so these brutalities are a serious insult to the constitutional right to life, she said.Kgaile said news of the deaths were devastating as they happened at a time the world was celebrating Mothers Day. When millions of mothers around the world were celebrating Mother s Day, Nombuyiselo s mum was struck by the devastating news of the brutal and inhumane murder of her daughter at the hands of cruel and barbaric forces. Elsewhere in Jouberton, children faced the painful loss of their dear mother in the most ruthless manner, she said.In the Nombuyiselo case, a 32-year-old man was arrested in connection with the murder while three people were taken in for questioning on the second death. The mayor bemoaned the heartless and brutal manner in which people, particularly women are killed. These incidents happen at a time when there is far too much violence in our society especially against women and young girls. We call on the community of Matlosana to unite in collaborative action with our police to stop this vicious cycle of violence and abuse. We commend the police for arresting the suspect linked to the murder of young Nombuyiselo and further urge them to leave no stone unturned in their investigations so that justice is swiftly meted to whoever is responsible for these ghastly deeds, she said.The mayor said the law should be allowed to take its course and that those responsible should get their just rewards for their actions. On behalf of all the citizens of Matlosana and in my own capacity as a mother, I convey heartfelt condolences to the affected families and wish them strength. Our prayers are with them during this sad period, she said.The two murders add to the shock the country s staggering incidents of murder where women are often the victims.Civil rights organisation Sonke Gender Justice said it was outraged following the killing of yet another young woman, this time in the North West.A 32-year-old man has been arrested for the murder and will be appearing at the Klerksdorp Magistrate s Court on Tuesday.Sonke Gender Justice s Nonhlanhla Skosana said something needs to happen to stop these brutal killings.She said these incidents say a lot about the value of women in this country. Women are human beings, when we talk about human rights. Let s call on communities to come together. Last month, Karabo Mokoena was killed allegedly by Sandile Mantsoe. Mokoena s charred remains were discovered in a veld in Bramley.Skosana has lauded slain Jozi FM DJ and former Generations actor Mandla Hlatshwayo for heeding the call to protect women, even when it cost him his life. Hlatshwayo died defending two women in a robbery outside a tavern.ELFAS TORERAIelfast@thenewage.co.za