There is no end in sight to hostilities between the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) and the MK Council, a group of former MK combatants.MKMVA chairperson Kebby Maphatsoe yesterday ratcheted up tensions following the conclusion of an extended MKMVA national executive committee (NEC) meeting in Boksburg, where he described the group, led by former MK general Siphiwe Nyanda, as a parallel structure .He also took aim at ANC Gauteng chairperson Paul Mashatile, calling him a factionalist for addressing a gathering of the MK Council at the weekend. ANC leaders that address parallel structures are undermining MKMVA. In fact they are divisive with what they are doing. And we are surprised Paul Mashatile was addressing the MK Council yesterday when he knows the national leadership of MKMVA. For them to go address another MK grouping, they are dividing MKMVA, in fact, they are factionalists. We want to call on them to refrain from further undermining MKMVA, we are not afraid of them, Maphatsoe said.His scathing remarks were a response to MK Council chairperson Nyanda criticising MKMVA for making a unilateral push for MKMVA s national conference scheduled for next month.The MKMVA was also the latest ANC body to give its nod of approval for former African Union (AU) chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to take over the reins of the ANC presidency.Maphatsoe, while describing Dlamini Zuma as a candidate who would not reverse the gains of the revolution , called upon the MKMVA rank and file to be on the stump for their preferred candidate in ANC branches. We believe that the former chairperson of the AU, comrade Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma will be suitable as the future president of the ANC. This would be in acknowledgement of the role she has played in the liberation struggle of the people of South Africa, Maphatsoe said.He provided reasons as to why Dlamini Zuma would be better suited to lead the ANC, as opposed to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, who is also an ANC presidential hopeful. She s the longest serving member of the NEC of the ANC, from exile up to today. Wherever she was deployed she performed very well and with the experience she has gained from the AU, where she was the president of all the presidents in Africa, she led. We are saying we will continue to implement the policy of the ANC. She s not going to implement the policies of individuals, to implement the policies of radical economic transformation. We think Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma to better placed. Maphatsoe also came to the aid of recently reappointed Eskom CEO Brian Molefe, whose return to the power utility sparked the ire of the ANC. When the economy of the country was suffering serious challenges, comrade Brian Molefe was deployed to Eskom and he turned it around, whenever everybody was saying we will never recover from this disaster of load shed.-Bonolo Selebano