A ring of steel has been thrown around President Jacob Zuma amid calls to have him removed from office at a crucial meeting of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) tomorrow.ANC Youth League president Collen Maine said any attempt to force Zuma to step down as president of both the ANC and country would be resisted at the ANC s NEC meeting in Irene, outside Pretoria. We don t have an agenda called the removal of president Zuma . What people don t realise is that the NEC is a different platform, what people are wishing for won t happen, the removal of the president won t happen. In the NEC we sit down and discuss our challenges, Maine said.Maine s comments come on the back of a group of ANC stalwarts calling on the ANC NEC to stand up and call on Zuma to step down. Upping the ante against Zuma was a move by Cosatu to ban Zuma from its events. This is unprecedented in the alliance s democratic history, that one member would ban a sitting president of the ANC from participating in its events.However, Maine, while describing Cosatu s move as unprecedented in the history of the alliance , poured cold water on Cosatu s decision not to invite Zuma to its upcoming central committee (CC) meeting on Monday. There are no major activities of Cosatu, unless they are talking about these memorial lectures they have been using to campaign for Cyril Ramaphosa (deputy president). This has now been reduced to political point scoring. Cosatu wants to personally benefit from the outcome of the ANC s December elective conference. They are using this as a stepping ladder to become NEC members or ministers if Ramaphosa is elected. They have turned into a lobby group for Ramaphosa, Maine said.Maine said the NEC meeting should review the ANC s relationship with its alliance partners. The ANC itself must reflect on its alliance partners and confront the question, do we still need an alliance or do we need to improve how we relate to each other? Approached for comment on the NEC meeting, ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said she would not be drawn into discussion over corridor talks of Zuma s removal at the meeting. I don t want to be part of all the gossip and all that stuff that s going on. I m preparing the organisation for conference, she said.Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla, commenting on the ANC on Tuesday and lamenting that it received no formal communication from Cosatu on its decision to ban Zuma from its events, said Cosatu was not a labour desk of the ANC. We ve done courtesy calls to the ANC in the past and they refused to even meet us. They can t have their cake and eat it too. This is a mistake for the ANC, we are not one of its leagues, we don t report to the ANC on the decisions of a constitutional structure of Cosatu, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za