The University of Johannesburg (UJ) has already exceeded its target to raise money for its missing middle students.The institution had set out to raise R120m by the end of the year to fund the students but had already collected R147m just halfway through the year. This year, the institution has embarked on a series of fundraising initiatives, including the Future Walk on May 20.Through the walk, R2m was raised for the university s missing middle students. The so-called missing middle are working and middle class students who are too wealthy to qualify for financial support but too poor to pay their own university fees.At the time of its launch in February last year, the missing middle campaign was one of the biggest fundraising campaigns ever undertaken by a South African institution of higher learning. The campaign secured R101m in 2016, which helped 3 858 missing middle students pay their tuition fees. For 2017, we had set ourselves the target of raising R120m in order to assist nearly 4000 missing middle students pay their tuition fees, UJ vicechancellor Prof Ihron Rensburg said. We have managed to exceed the target through generous contributions from business and industry, the public sector, our suppliers and the UJ Future Walk. We will continue these efforts during the remainder of 2017 to expand our support to academically deserving missing middle students who are in dire need of financial assistance. Rensburg said although the university had exceeded its year-end target, many academically deserving missing middle students still required support. The average cost of funding a University of Johannesburg student for a year is R85000, which includes tuition, accommodation, books, transport and other living allowances. It is encouraging to see the extraordinary goodwill that business and industry, the public sector and the general public have shown to the university and its students. I am also deeply grateful to our council, alumni and convocation, the UJ SRC, senior university leaders and staff for their generous responses that have contributed immensely to us reaching this new milestone, he said. However, I appeal for further contributions to this honourable cause for it is in this manner that we demonstrate our commitment to human solidarity and shared human progress. LILLIAN SELAPISAlillians@thenewage.co.za