More than 40 street vendors in King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality are back in business after their caravans were confiscated by the municipality while 201 are still waiting for their caravans.The municipality said the street vendors were not complying with the by-laws of the country.It said some of these citizens do not have trading licences and some of their caravans do not comply with section 93 of 1996 concerning street trading in South Africa. All caravans will be given back to their owners despite the fact that they are still not complying with by-laws.King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality spokesperson Sonwabo Mampoza said they are opposing the decision of the court and will continue to instil the need for street vendors to adhere with by-laws. We are certainly not fighting with the street vendors. In fact we plan to create a street kitchen that will have these citizens in designated areas to sell their goods. The issue is that there are too many of them in town and it is really congested and it makes it hard to fight crime in the area, Mampoza said.Mampoza said there would be signs put up in areas where hawkers were not allowed to sell and if found, they would have their goods confiscated. Thembeka Gawulekhaya, the chairperson of the African Hawkers Association (AHA), said they were happy that the hawkers were able to work now. Some of the caravans are broken but the hawkers are desperate to be back in business and support their families, Gawulekhaya said.She said they would still be going to court to ensure that those hawkers who had not received their caravans, get them back. It cannot be argued that the history of having street vendors arrested and their merchandise being confiscated is one that spreads through the continent. However, there may be a level of undermining the crucial role that the food markets in the informal sector are vital.A study of 11 African cities found that 70% of households regularly purchase their food from informal markets or street vendors.Some hawkers in the King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality are struggling to make ends meet and provide for their families. Noluvo Walaza was one of the street vendors who were on strike after the mayor said all caravans should be confiscated.A couple of days before her caravan was taken, she was shot by the police. In 2015, there were more than 250 incidents of violence against informal workers in Africa reported in the media, more than fourfold increase since 2005.Spokesperson for the premier s office Sonwabo Mbananga said the premier was and has been aware of the protests that were taking place in Mthatha. We spoke with the King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality and they said they wanted to make sure that by-laws were adhered to, Mbananga said.SISANDA MADWANTSIprovinces@thenewage.co.za