Matjhabeng local municipality residents celebrated Africa Day under a theme inspired by one of Africa s greatest minds, Kwame Nkrumah.The theme was inspired by Nkrumah s famous words: I am not an African because I was born in Africa but because Africa was born in me and was hosted by the office of the mayor at the Freddie Meyer Hall in Welkom. Matjhabeng municipality council speaker Bheki Stofile said the problem with Africa was that people were preoccupied with politics. What occupies us the most is politics whereas we must be concerned about the well-being of our neighbours, he said.Stofile said this year s Africa Day celebration was significant as it celebrated the year of Oliver Tambo under the theme, Unity in Action, Building a Better Africa and a Better World. OR Tambo would have encouraged us as Africans to unite, hold hands and walk together to total freedom. No life is beyond individualistic, it is all about living together. Your importance must be linked to the importance of another person s. It is time to go back to our morals so that we can build a caring society. Stofile said it was important to understand the content of the day. It is of outmost importance to understand the content and the value of this day. In this way we will be able to reconnect with our history. Different cultural activities such as Muramba music and Setswana dancers entertained the crowed. The official Africa Day, however, is on May 25. Ghana, Nkrumah s home country, became the first African country in the south of the Sahara to gain independence in March 1957. Its independence served as an inspiration to other African countries struggling against colonial rule and as a result, Ghana occupied a central role in the struggle against colonial rule. Africa Day presents an opportunity for South Africans to reconnect and recommit themselves in support of all government interventions to develop a better Africa and a better world, the South African government said in a statement.The statement said the government celebrated the day when the Organisation of African Unity, the precursor to the African Union, was formed in 1963. It acknowledges the progress that we, as Africans, have made, while reflecting upon the common challenges we face in a global environment. The African Union, comprising 53 member states, has brought together the continent of Africa to collectively address the challenges it has faced, such as armed conflict, climate change and poverty.GRACE BOLOWANAprovinces@thenewage.co.za