A possible banning order for President Jacob Zuma to address a mid-term policy gathering of Cosatu on Monday was tabled for debate yesterday in a meeting of the trade federation s central executive committee (CEC).Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali, speaking ahead of the meeting, said: We have not invited him, there are two invitations that we normally do. We invite the alliance partners if we have invited the ANC but following the issues that other unions were raising to highlight the contradiction, we stopped doing that. We have not invited him to speak as we talk now. Ntshalintshali s comments come against the background of deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa s unofficial campaign for the ANC presidency gaining momentum. While Cosatu and the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) have officially endorsed Ramaphosa as their preferred candidate to lead the ANC after its December elective conference, Ramaphosa also enjoys the tacit support of the SACP, who have not relented on their calls for Zuma to step down.Ntshalintshali, making reference to Zuma s possible banning order, said Cosatu would seek to establish whether its call for Zuma to step down, would be consistent with a decision to ban Zuma from attending all Cosatu related events or activities. That s what the CEC will clarify, do they want to invite him to speak and see those contradictions? Ntshalintshali said it was common practice for Cosatu to have the president of the ANC address its central committee meeting, however, after the trade federation s call for Zuma to leave office, he said the ANC s alliance partner would review the broader implications of its call for Zuma to step down. People have been raising issues on whether we have common understanding on the implications of what seem to be a conflicting situation. We need to find common ground for how we manage that decision, he said.Ntshalintshali also dismissed as speculation a possible motion of no confidence in Cosatu president Sdumo Dlamini. Many unions have come out and said we have no intention of doing those particular issues, no unions have taken that decision. It s not even on the agenda because nobody has raised it, he said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za