Stealing vehicles in the province and smuggling them out into the neighbouring countries such as Mozambique and Swaziland could be eradicated soon.The provincial department of community safety, security and liaison has launched a border security programme that is aimed at eliminating cross border car theft. It is being done in partnership with different stakeholders.The launch was in Komatipoort at the weekend. The stakeholders include the SAPS, the SANDF, Nkomazi local municipality and Tracker. In the 2016-17 financial year, about 142 stolen vehicles were recovered while trying to cross the border to Mozambique.Some of the vehicles were stolen or hijacked from other provinces.The majority of the targeted vehicles are double cabs and 4&#215;4 bakkies. Community safety, security and liaison MEC Pat Ngomane said teamwork would not only target the prevention of tracking stolen vehicles.Ngomane said the team would also play a vital role against the smuggling of stock theft and other unlawful goods. He said the team had to be established following the number of complaints raised by the provincial residents, especially those residing nearby the borders of the surrounding countries. To end the stealing and hijacking of vehicles, which are later moved to Mozambique illegally through the border, the department together with the stakeholders launched a border security project aimed at ensuring that no vehicle passes the border. It shows that there is still more to be done to prevent the stealing and hijacking of vehicles although there were vehicles already recovered. I always believe that prevention is better than cure as much as we want to make our border safe, let us also go out there to the communities and teach them about crime prevention.We need to stop crime before it happens, Ngomane said.He also voiced concern about community members failing to report criminals to the police and colluding with criminals because such behaviour was making the SAPS s work difficult. This project will be a success if all stakeholders work with the police and the SANDF, including the community members.I know that some of community members are assisting these criminals. Therefore it is in this regard that we need to lobby them into working with police because they know the criminals, Ngomane said.He said the authorities in the neighbouring countries also needed to cooperate with the provincial authorities to curb the crime at ports of entry.FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za