Teams of scientists have been dispatched to Centane to deal with the outbreak of the fall armyworm, rural development and agrarian reform MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane said.Qoboshiyane said the fall armyworm infestation was confirmed by the national Department of Agriculture Forestry and Fishing through lab tests after scientists in the province identified its presence in the area. I can officially confirm that the Eastern Cape province has been infected by the fall armyworm, which was detected in the maize fields at Cebe village in Centane. I assigned a team of multidisciplinary departmental scientists to control the pest from destroying maize fields in the area, Qoboshiyane said.The fall armyworm is a quarantine pest for South Africa, with an internationally documented wide host range. Qoboshiyane said the department had been prepared to deal with a fall armyworm outbreak since its presence in the country was confirmed earlier this year. When the first fall armyworm was detected in South Africa in February, the national government registered chemicals to control the pest. Our department then procured these chemicals in advance to be ready to control them. He said the provincial department s multidisciplinary team had already arrived in Centane and started pest control measures, which included spraying chemicals to prevent the pest from spreading to nearby fields. The provincial department has invested about R6.4m for maize production in Centane, he said. Our effort is to make sure that this maize is not affected by the pest. When we received reports suspecting fall armyworm from Centane, our scientists identified it and for further confirmation, samples were sent to the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing laboratory in Stellenbosch and results confirmed it. We call on all communities in the area not to panic and to report any suspicious incident to Dr Thembakazi Silwana on 063 6940918 for emergency support and assistance. The department is intensifying surveillance of this pest in the entire province, Qoboshiyane said. We would like to warn locals in Centane to stay away from the maize fields during spraying. SIYA MITIprovinces@thenewage.co.za