A lack of consensus in decision making on key policy issues has been identified as a major Achilles heel in the ANC-led tripartite alliance.This was according to a Cosatu Central Committee discussion document to its Central Committee meeting, under way in Irene, Pretoria. In the report, Cosatu said, from the period since the ANC was led under former president Nelson Mandela, up to the ANC led by President Jacob Zuma, a culture of minimal consultation and cooperation with its alliance partners on policy matters had become common practise. This lack of consultation resulted in the ANC-led democratic movement being forced to adopt the Growth, Employment and Redistribution policy with little or no consultation. This is what also happened when the National Planning Commission was put together and when the National Development Plan was adopted in Mangaung. The ANC did not consult its structures, nor its alliance partners. Lately, we have seen the impotence of the ANC national executive committee under Zuma. The country is in a crisis and they are helpless to provide leadership, the report said. This underscored the push-back from some within the ANC rank and file to Zuma s Cabinet reshuffle.SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande on the first day of Cosatu s midterm policy gathering criticised Zuma for abusing his prerogative when he instituted a Cabinet shake-up in March. Cosatu, making reference to its May Day fiasco in Manguang, where Zuma was repeatedly booed and heckled, said conflicting messages from alliance leaders on the leadership of the president was a one of the reasons workers turned on their leaders on the day. Many workers for the last decade have been frustrated by a lack of coherence among the ANC leadership and what we have seen happening in Mangaung during May Day was a public reflection and demonstration of that anger. The most recent example was the Cabinet reshuffle that proved once again that the ANC had not changed in the last 22 years. We saw its leadership collective giving different positions and changing their decisions in public. Cosatu also expressed fear that as the alliance was embroiled in factionfighting over positions attributed to the ANC s elective conference, opposition benches were beginning to gain ground ahead of the 2019 general elections. It is worrying that in the face of the continued rise in the confidence of the right wing, our movement is not showing any signs of coherency, instead infighting continues, both inside the movement and in the state. There s a political stampede where everyone is jostling for power. Week in and week out, comrades openly go to the media to attack each other or to present positions which differ with the official position of the ANC. Veterans of the movement do not use internal organisational platforms but instead go the media to express their concerns. BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za