South African black fund and asset managers are set to get a major financial boost from the US National Association of Securities Professionals (Nasp), which manages pension funds, trustees and asset managers worth $1.8 trillion (R24.1 trillion) combined.The Nasp has been in South Africa for a week at the invitation of the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (Absip) discussing how to fast-track transformation and what holds back black asset managers. Alexander Forbes says just 42 of SA s 130 asset managers were black.The report said South Africa s asset management industry has been slow to transform, with black asset managers handling less than 5% of industry assets. In an interview with The New Age yesterday, the president of Absip, Sibongiseni Mbatha, said black asset managers and black stock brokers in South Africa lagged and did not even make the top 10 list. A high concentration of top 10 industry players manage a staggering 70% of funds and all are white or foreignowned. With a boost from our US sister organisation to get a slice of their R24 trillion of savings, this will lift the brake that has been holding us back for almost 23 years. Nasp wants to invest this money into South Africa and the continent, and wants Absip to help in the rollout plan to access our asset managers through the JSE, he said.Mbatha said they presented the state of transformation in black asset managers to Parliament where blacks account between 4.6% and 4.7%, which translates into only R800bn. We are still below the trillion mark after 23 years of democracy and this is a major concern for us. It is high time to correct this imbalance and we welcome the boost from Nasp as this will help to turn around the current situation. In the next couple of weeks we are going to flesh out details on how we are going to roll out the plan. However, this is not for Absip members only. We are open to any blacks in the industry. There is no doubt that this is going to be a complete game changer. None of the top 10 asset managers are black-owned. We need to reverse the situation, he said.On a similar note, the Minster of Labour Mildred Oliphant is expected to launch the 17th Commission for Employment Equity Report tomorrow. The report will detail the statues on transformation of various workplaces in the South African labour market.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za