The mainstream media are not unbiased nor are they entirely objective. It chooses its heroes and darlings and like many, loves an antagonist and a protagonist.And in today s media and media consumer landscape of click baiting and measuring success by the number of likes or comments, the desire to be first supersedes the journalistic principles of being fair and accurate.By all accounts, former Huffington Post SA editor Verashni Pillay resigned (or was forced to do so) as she had not done the necessary checks and balances on a piece the site had decided to run.The subsequent outcry and complaints over the blog (which called for white men to lose their voting rights) to the press ombudsman set in motion a sequence of events that eventually led to Pillay leaving the company.In his ruling, ombudsman Johan Retief declared: I do not believe for one moment that such discriminatory and denigratory opinions can be described as being in the public interest especially given this country s history of its struggle for liberation. To disenfranchise a section of the population once again would indeed represent a huge step backwards one that may have some serious unforeseen consequences. The finding follows multiple complaints lodged since the blog appeared on the Facebook page of the Huffington Post website on April 13 under the headline Could it be time to deny white men the franchise? Regulatory frameworks are put in place to protect us from harm , that is, fatalistic banner warnings on packs of cigarettes, movie classifications and so on. So where do news products and how and what we consume fit into our decision making processes?Fake news, theoretically anyway, should make the conscious news consumer be more vigilant, quizzical and interrogative about everything news-related they watch on television or online and what they read in newspapers and on social media. In South Africa, we naively hold onto the virtues of an independent media.Openly and blatantly supporting a particular political party, for example, is met with howls of derision and yet, those so-called bastions of democracy the US and the UK which our consumptive patterns are overwhelmingly influenced by, thrive on partisan mainstream media driving specific politicians and/or their political agendas.Tune into Fox News and it is mostly Republican party drum beating and Democratic Party bashing and vice versa for the likes of CNN and CBS. In the UK, newspapers have openly advocated for their readers to vote for a specific prime minister candidate and more recently they were either advocating for their readers to vote to remain in the European Union or to exit it.Does this mean that they have abandoned their journalistic independence altogether and have forgotten their role as societal watchdog? Has the so-called corporatisation of news organisations rendered them wholly untrustworthy? Does this make them less credible? Or do we judge credibility favourably only when what we consume in media as being agreeable and inoffensive to our world views?Does this mean you cannot trust biased media outlets to speak truth to power or to shine a light in dark corners ? That is for us, the news consumers to decide.Sure, comparisons are relative, but why is it that we in South Africa are appalled when particular news organisations openly state that they buy into particular political ideologies? And given brand and audience, by default, media products within any given organisation will have a specific projection or angle on stories which will differ from news organisations with an entirely different ideological make-up, history or intention.Pillay s howler was not so much that she published the article, but that she failed to check the bona fides of the author and the veracity of the information contained within the article in question. Using race in South Africa is like shooting fish in a barrel. Form over substance.Ironically, it brings out the troll mobs, the racists, the misogynists and anyone with enough data to add their two cents worth who will pretty much say whatever it is they want to without fearing any real consequence.To be fair, it doesn t take much for people to react online. The beauty of being a selfpublisher. We have to start questioning the strength of our democracy when we fail to publish or broadcast a wide range of voices (hate speech is another argument altogether).Failing which, it weakens us as a society and undermines the very ideals of our free society. In this year of heated party political leadership battles within the ANC and the DA we have to wade through the murky morass that is our democracy and try to find authentic voices that are balanced in their delivery and not vitriolic in their ideology. Access to information has never been easier. Access to the truth is another matter. It all depends on who you ask or who you choose to believe.Muhammad Khalid SayedMuhammad Khalid Sayed is the chairperson of the ANC Youth League Western Cape