Crimes against children are alarming and needs more public discussion in order to engage society s conscience, especially when May 27 to June 2 is recognised as National Child Protection Week.The undeclared war on South Africa s children is seemingly eating away the country s moral fibre. News reports are filled with young souls who are being exposed to violence, which can take many forms as it includes physical, sexual, emotional and neglect (when a child s development in terms of their education, health among others is being compromised, and makes them vulnerable to feasible harm).Recently in a case involving violent acts against a child, Courtney Pieters from Cape Town was a rape and murder victim, allegedly at the hands of someone she knew. NGO Save the Children South Africa said: There is a need to end violence against children and we call for greater investment in prevention programmes. We need to stop being reactionary. Our emotions flare up when we hear these horrific reports of gender-based violence and brutal attacks on our children as they should but then we go back to our daily lives. We need to invest in preventing these incidents from taking place, protect our children and reclaim their childhood. We have comfortably reduced the lives of children and women to hashtags instead of taking action. According to the National Prosecuting Authority, 19 children have been killed in the Western Cape since the beginning of this year. A study titled Violence Unwrapped The Social and Economic Burden of Violence Against Children in South Africa, launched in November and led by Save The Children South Africa, examined how the ill-treatment of children has far-reaching implications on them as adults also in relation to the country s economic prospects.Outcomes of the study were calculated by the exposure and lost numbers of years of the child (known as DisabilityAdjusted Life Year) multiplied by the potential total productivity loss within twelve months. The cost categories were: the monetary value of lives lost from fatal cases of violence against children, physical, mental health outcomes and health risks attributable to nonfatal violence against children; reduced earnings due to physical and emotional violence against children; and child welfare costs.Overall economic costs from each of these categories amounted to billions and that was at least 6% of the gross domestic product (GDP) for the fiscal year of 2015-16. The study made recommendations which include an urgent prioritisation in investment for prevention programmes that would address developing safe relationships between children, their parents and caregivers.South Africa needs to change its cultural and social norms as the scourge of violence against children can no longer be downplayed. It is a serious indictment on this country when it destroys the future in which its children carry. The lives of abused or murdered children results in their potential being robbed, of which this country needs to survive. President Jacob Zuma said SA might need harsher laws to curb violence against children.However, that would only be too simplistic. SA has a problem with crime and the inefficiency of police does not help in that regard. So to say the country needs harsher laws you would be dismissing the social ills which form the root cause that contributes to violence against children. As for policing, it should be about arresting criminals, having a strong case for prosecution which results in stiff jail sentences by the judicial system. SA should let children play on fields that nurture their own hopes and dreams.Refilwe MagashuleRefilwe Magashule is a journalist at The New Age