Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane is aware that any slip-up from his side now will end their chance of defending the Absa Premiership title. They were offered a perfect opportunity to move top of the log when title rivals Bidvest Wits lost 3-1 to Free State Stars.On the same evening, Sundowns failed to use Wits slip to their advantage, later drawing against Baroka FC at home. But with two matches remaining, Mosimane, whose side will host tricky Maritzburg United at Lucas Moripe Stadium tomorrow, warned his side that nothing but an outright victory will suffice and if they drop further points they must forget about winning the title. It s a must win. If we don t win that one, then we must forget it, Mosimane said. When you don t win you hope other people don t win. But you have to win and never mind what other people do, you must win. If you want to win the league, you must win against Maritzburg United and that s it. Maybe we will be sharper, quicker. There was no venom in our last match. Downs trail log leaders Wits by two points and should they fail to collect maximum points against the Team of Choice and the Clever Boys beat Polokwane City, Gavin Hunt s charges will be crowned champions.Maritzburg are likely to give Sundowns some problems if their recent impressive performance under caretaker coach Fadlu Davids is anything to go by. Mosimane acknowledged the work Davids has been doing at Maritzburg and that his team will need to be better than they were against St George in the CAF Champions League at the weekend. Fadlu has done very well. I think he won three games before losing to Wits and he won coach of the month, Mosimane said. They played well against Wits, I must say that.They are not a team you can roll over. But at this point in time, which team is easy? Look at Highlands Park, how they fought against Chippa United. So you will never know what will happen next. There is no easy team now. The results will surprise you. Baroka came here and scored two goals against us, Platinum Stars did the same here. Free State Stars scored three goals against Wits. I think it is going to end well. Mosimane will hope the likes of Khama Billiat and Percy Tau will bring their scoring boots against Maritzburg.-NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za