Former estate agent Vicky Momberg told the Randburg Magistrate s Court yesterday that she suspected the footage of her shouting racial insults at police officers in 2016 had been tampered with and should be sent to an expert for examination. The YouTube looks like photos as the images don t flow like a real video. It must have been tampered with, she said.Momberg used the K-word more than 40 times on the night she swore at police officers and a 10111 operator. The court had to adjourn for her to compose herself after she cried when her counsel asked her to tell the court how she had felt when her car was broken into in a smash and grab incident which led to her racist rants that were caught on a cellphone camera. Momberg is facing four counts of crimen injuria.In the video clip Momberg can be heard complaining about the calibre of blacks in Johannesburg. The calibre of blacks in this town (varies) from the calibre of blacks in Durban. They re opinionated, they re arrogant and they re just plain and simple useless. I am happy for a white person to assist me, or a coloured person, or an Indian person. I do not want a black person to assist me, she shouts. Let me tell you something. This is the type of police force we have got. We( ve) got a low calibre (of) people working. If I see a black person, I will drive them over. If I have a gun, I will shoot everyone, she tells the officer before driving off.The South African Human Rights Commission has asked the court to impose a fine of R150000 on Momberg.Prosecutor Yusuf Baba asked Momberg if she considered herself a racist. Momberg said she was not racist and that the majority of her clients were black. Baba however pressed her on why she had used the K-word more than 40 times and why she had specifically asked to be helped by a white coloured or Indian police officer. Momberg said: At the time I did not want a black person near me. She said she could not remember using the K-word more than 40 times. I was erratic and irritated. Whatever I said I was very angry and fearful. I don t think I really cared. I just wanted help she said.Momberg said the K-word was derogatory and was not something she would use on a daily basis. I don t agree with using the K-word. I do feel I should apologise but I hope they understand what I was going through. Momberg said she had received death threats after the incident. The trial continues.NONDUMISO ZWANEnondumisoz@thenewage.co.za