Members of the provincial legislature will continue to identify impoverished citizens and provide them with the necessary support to improve their living conditions, as defined by the South African Constitution.The assurance was made by speaker Thandi Shongwe when she presented the budget in Mbombela on Tuesday. Shongwe said the programme played a vital role for pupils by providing them with uniforms, toiletries and sanitary towels.She said a number of schools with vulnerable pupils had already benefited from the provincial government s drive of adopting such schools and providing support to needy pupils, in partnership with a variety of stakeholders. We note that more support is needed for vulnerable children as we continue to realise the objectives of the Freedom Charter, which states that The doors of learning and culture shall be opened . It is against this background that we raise awareness in ensuring coordination, direct intervention and mobilisation of stakeholders to work side by side with the government, Shongwe said. She said additional stakeholders were needed to support the project and assist the pupils. This is done through the province s Adopt A School programme, focusing on schools in rural areas, as they tend to have more deepseated socio-economic challenges than people living in urban areas. In the past financial year, the legislature successfully organised nine legacy projects that assisted needy children and communities. We will continue this project with the support we receive from our partners, Shongwe said.She said members of the legislature would increase their visits to communities and hear their needs relating to service delivery and other challenges as part of their public participation programme. As the legislature, we will continue to diversify, reignite and renew our public participation and education programme to enhance public involvement and education. This is to build public confidence and trust and ensure accountability. FRANCE NYAKAfrancen@thenewage.co.za