Only 4% of all professionals in South Africa s engineering sector are female and even fewer of these are black.This makes Burgersfort resident Mamokiba Makuwa, owner of TKY Trading, even more exceptional.Some girls play nursie-nurse or teacher-teacher but Makuwa s favourite childhood game was shop-shop with her own emporium, selling the finest wares and making pots of money. She grew up among the boys and the idea of success excited this ambitious entrepreneur. Winning in business always was and still is exhilarating, it makes you strive for so much more , Makuwa said. We used to sell blocks of ice at school and it was expected that I would bring the budgeted R20 home. Makuwa was a star pupil, giving the boys a run for their money. She was promoted from Grade 8 straight into Grade 10, where she shared a class with her older brother and excelled there too. Later, she graduated top of her class at the Tshwane University of Technology.On a recent visit to Marota Primary School in Gamotodi, she found herself spontaneously encouraging the girls in the audience to focus on maths and science to help them access careers that traditionally exclude them. Her very first job required her to answer the phone and soon enough she was meddling in sales and marketing. Even though my title was receptionist, I loved sales and marketing and when given the chance I would triple the sales targets. From beauty to health products, I sold it all! It was this natural entrepreneurial ability that led to the birth of TKY Trading in 2012, making Makuwa the first female entrepreneur in the engineering services field in her area.TKY Trading specialises in armature winding, general engineering and construction maintenance and provides a range of products and services to the mining industry. Makuwa takes pride in being a strong, capable female in a male-dominated sector, although she recognises that she still has much to learn about the industry and her clients. She is exploring the prospect of opening other branches in other provinces, as the business is growing steadily and her employee numbers and turnover are increasing. Entrepreneurs need to be constantly looking at growth opportunities. You cannot stay in one place, or others will soon overtake you. I am fortunate that I have support and access to resources as I start to spread my wings. The support she is referring to relates to her participation in the SAB Foundation Tholoana Enterprise Programme. TKY Trading was one of only 11 businesses from Limpopo selected for this prestigious programme, which provides participants with access to extensive training and expert mentorship, market access, financing and other resources designed to help businesses like hers achieve new levels of success. I strongly encourage budding entrepreneurs and especially those ladies out there, to explore the available support to help them achieve their dreams, Makuwa, who now employs 10 other people, said. Our country is full of opportunities, it is up to us to step up and make things happen. SELLO RABOTHATAsellor@thenewage.co.za