The provincial department of education has called on parents and guardians to use the month long admission period to place their kids.The department said it was starting this admission process so that pupils should not struggle at the beginning of the year when looking for a place in school.Spokesperson Geoffrey van der Merwe said the admissions would be opened from Monday until the end of the month. We appeal to all parents and legal guardians to ensure that they enrol their child during this admission period. Last year we received a large number of late applications from parents, which contributed to a number of pupils only being placed in a school in January, he said. Education is a right and parents have the responsibility to ensure that every child of school-going age, attends a school and has access to education. We trust that parents will give their cooperation in this regard so that the admission process runs smoothly, Van der Merwe said.According to the department, parents need to have full documents when seeking admission.Among the documents are a certified copy of the pupil s official birth certificate/identity document, recent school report card, clinic or immunisation card of the pupil, certified copies of parents IDs, parents legal relationship with pupil and proof of parents residence, among others.He said parents would be informed by a letter from the principal of the school if the pupil was admitted or not in August. Parents and guardians must then inform the principal in writing within seven days of receipt of the notification whether they accept or decline the placing at the school, he said.Van der Merwe said parents who might not be satisfied with the response from the school would be granted an opportunity to engage with the office of the MEC directly.Late applications for admissions shall be accommodated where school places exist, but not necessarily at the pupil s school of choice. Pupils whose parents have been transferred into the province shall apply directly to a school, he said.Recently department of education said all was in place as the second term commenced yesterday for the 2017 academic year.Van der Merwe said everything went well and no major incidents were reported to the department on the first day.He said both the teachers and the pupils were fired up to get started with learning and teaching to ensure that every pupil was going to do well. Everything is going well and as the department we are on track to ensure that every child is in class to receive education, he said.Van der Merwe said the department was working with all stakeholders to ensure that everything was going according to plan. He said the department was told of a school in Calvinia where the building was destroyed during the holidays because of thunderstorms. There were about eight classrooms which were damaged. However, a contractor is on site and is busy fixing the classroom and the rest of the buildings, he said.Van der Merwe said the pupils were being stationed at the municipal buildings as well as churches to ensure that learning was not disrupted when classes start. There was a visit from the department of labour which advised the building was not safe for pupils. TIISETSO MANOKOtiisetsom@thenewage.co.za