Now that it is clear Kaizer Chiefs will finish the season empty handed again, the question is what will come next for coach Steve Komphela.Komphela became the first Chiefs coach since the inception of the PSL with the ignominious record of going two full seasons without winning anything. Chiefs last hope of silverware was the Absa Premiership title, but following log leaders Bidvest Wits 1-0 victory over Maritzburg United at the weekend, the Soweto giant s fate was sealed with three matches remaining. But where did it go wrong this season for Amakhosi? Last season, Chiefs finished fifth on the log and reached two cup finals only to lose both.This season, a lot was expected from them, particularly with Komphela being in his second season in charge of the Glamour Boys. But they had a poor start following their early exits in the MTN8, Telkom Knockout, and Nedbank Cup competitions. In the Absa Premiership, they had a chance of winning the title but they blew it as they dropped points at crucial stages of the season and in matches they should have easily won.There is no doubt the blame will fall on Komphela, but, in truth, Chiefs did not have calibre of players to compete with Mamelodi Sundowns, Wits, Cape Town or even SuperSport United. However, Komphela must also take some of the blame, especially for the rotation of his back four, which came back to haunt him. Lorenzo Gordinho proved he was Chiefs best player this season and whenever he has partnered with Eric Mathoho, they hardly concede soft goals.But Komphela kept on using Daniel Cordoso and Mathoho at the heart of his defence, especially in the last three matches when Chiefs conceded in stoppage time when they were either leading or drawing a match. Komphela also failed to get the best out of players like Bernard Parker, George Maluleka and George Lebese. These players were in the past key to Chiefs winning trophies under former coach Stuart Baxter.Now what s left for them is to try to win all their three remaining matches and hope to qualify for the CAF Champions League or Confederation Cup. Komphela said he took full responsibility for the side s troubles this season. To be honest with, if you are man enough you cannot point at something like we were unfortunate and all that, Komphela said. It is my duty and responsibility as a coach to own up and point at technical things. Maybe look at how we defended, how we missed chances. Maybe talking to the defence to manage the game better. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za