A group of independent churches has called on churches to become more involved in rooting out the high levels of violence against children and women in South Africa. Churches should take part in educating members about how destructive violence against children and women is. Awareness about the dangers of violence and drug abuse must also happen in churches, the South Africa Union Council of Independent Churches (SAUCIC) president archbishop Modiri Patrick Shole said. We would like to see civil organisations, schools and communities coming together to raise awareness and to take a stand against all these criminal activities that plague our communities. SAUCIC also expressed concern about abuse allegations levelled against some pastors. Controversial pastor Tim Omotoso is still behind bars after his arrest in April on allegations of sexual violence and human trafficking against young women in his church.It is believed that up to 30 young women have come forward claiming that Omotoso took them to his Umhlanga Rocks rented house near Durban where the alleged abuse happened.The killing of women and children has been in the spotlight recently with calls for tougher actions against perpetrators with several women and children being found dead since the beginning of 2017In a recent incident the body of a 12-year-old-girl was found in her mother s boyfriend s house in Cullinan on Tuesday afternoon.This was after the young girl went out to look for her mother at the boyfriend s house.Police spokesperson Kay Makhubela said a 44-year-old man was arrested by the police in Bronkhorstspruit yesterday. We were informed by community members that the young girl was last seen entering the man s house and screams came from the house. However, the man fled the scene and the young girl was found dead. It is believed the girl was raped before being murdered, Makhubela said.According to SAPS statistics in 2010-11 there were more than 50000 crimes against children. More than half (52%) of all reported crimes against children were sexual in nature, while sexual crimes accounted for 19% of crimes against adult women.Studies show that while all children are vulnerable to violence, those under the age of five years are likely to be abused and killed in their homes and communities. with Thabiso Machaka.Zodidi Mhlanazodidim@thenewage.co.za&nbsp;