Business lobby group the Black Business Council (BBC) yesterday launched a scathing attack on the government for allowing the top co-founder of Business Connexion, Isaac Mophatlane, to resign, saying it was like suicide for black industrialists and the success of black business people.In 2015, the Competition Tribunal approved the R2.6bn merger deal between Business Connexion Group and Telkom.At the time, BCX employed about 6700 people in Africa and generated revenue in excess of R6bn a year. BCX is an IT company and encourages digital transformation. The BBC is condemning the departure of Isaac Mophatlane from Business Connexion, the company he and his late twin brother founded 38 years ago, a few years after it was acquired by Telkom. There s no magic solution to avoid the hurt feelings, the tension, the discomfort this development has caused among our members. This is an attack on black excellence, Sello Rasethaba, BBC chairperson, said.According to a statement from Telkom CEO Sipho Maseko, Mophatlane resigned. But the BBC believes he was forced out.Attempts to get hold of Telkom and Mophatlane proved fruitless yesterday.Rasethaba said the government, as a major shareholder in Telkom, should bow its head in shame for allowing Telkom chairperson Jabu Mabuza and Maseko to erode confidence in black professionals and to leave black children without a heritage of entrepreneurial success. The BBC wishes to remind Maseko s own words on Mophatlane s appointment in June 2016 that in the coming weeks and months, Mophatlane would be driving the full integration of Telkom Business Connexion and we are proud to have such an astute business leader fulfilling this role . Telkom Business Connexion is uniquely equipped to strengthen Telkom s core offering, allowing us to offer solutions. But now it s gone, he said.According to the BBC, the ICT market has produced capable black men and women who can equally do the job with excellence and that Mophatlane could have been replaced by a black professional from the company.But, said Rasethaba, Mabuza and Maseko preferred to replace Mophatlane with a white man. It is a demonstration that they do not care about Black Economic Empowerment (BEE). They are encouraging the exodus of black executives from Telkom. The BBC is categorically appealing to both Mabuza and Maseko to believe in black excellence and stop the self-hatred, stop the exodus of black professionals from Telkom and restore Telkom to its former glory as a champion of BEE. We call on the government and in particular the new Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Siyabonga Cwele, to stop this rot, Rasethaba said.Also on the sidelines, observers expressed great concern that in a bid to try to create black industrialists and talking tough on radical economic transformation, it is a blow to get rid of them so easily. It simply suggests that transformation is taken lightly in some quarters and instead of producing what we are aiming for we killed it.The trade and industry minister reiterated during the 27th World Economic Forum held in Durban that the country is still optimistic it will produce 100 black industrialists by the end of this financial year.bernards@thenewage.co.za