There is no need to fear the discussions around radical economic transformation, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said in Parliament.The issues discussed, he said yesterday, should not cause any disquiet. We all should be eager to participate, Gigaba said in his first appearance as finance minister at a hearing of the Standing Committee on Finance. You have different perspectives emerging. How do you get the majority of South Africans not only just employed but to participate in the economy? We shouldn t try in an artificial manner and say close the debate. Even the ruling party itself, added Gigaba, has not resolved what radical economic transformation means.The ANC has scheduled a debate for its policy conference mid-year, as well as national conference in December. So when discussions are ongoing we shouldn t hurry to say that there is a contradiction because it s still a debate. We should separate what are the policies of the ruling party. From where I sit there are no contradictions, Gigaba said in reply to a question about contradictions in the terms radical economic transformation and inclusion .He said there were common concerns but there were policies that have been agreed to. The debate on what is meant by radical transformation is ongoing. It will be resolved in a manner that takes the interests of all South Africans into account .In South Africa, he said, 10% of the population owned about 42% of the wealth of the land. We should worry about that. The debate should be how do you change that because that is unsustainable. The biggest headache is the unsustainable levels of inequality in South Africa. Many of the 17 million social grant recipients, he said, could actually work if there were jobs. I think that is what we ought to be worrying about. To create jobs South Africa needed to be industrialised, a manufacturing sector must be created, and an infrastructure programme must also be rolled out. That basically means we need to do things in an unusual way. We need to drive the industrial programme in South Africa as we ve never done before. There is nothing irresponsible in what I ve said. There is nothing business as usual in what I ve been saying. He agreed, he said, that South Africa has to balance what we seek to achieve and what the fiscus allows us to achieve. As we strike that balance we must have the view its important for us to continue to grow the economy and expand our tax base. We need all business to make profits and get people employed .-DENNIS CRUYWAGEN