LONGTIME Santos captain Tyren Arendse will retire at the end of the season, calling time on a playing career that has spanned three clubs and 18 years, nearly 14 of which have been spent at childhood club Santos. But it is the reason for his retirement that should draw equal attention to the decline of the once mighty Santos, a downfall reflected in Arendse s decision to draw down the curtain on his career.At 36, Arendse is no longer the youngster who set the PSL alight as a wideeyed 19-year-old spring-chicken on the eve of the new 21st century. But sadly, it seems it s the end of the road for Santos in the paying ranks after they were relegated to the ABC Motsepe League with a 3-0 loss to AmaZulu in their weekend NFD fixture. Obviously grateful for all the good memories over the years, although there have been disappointments, Arendse said. I ve been part of the team that s been successful, which has won the league and cup competitions. But it s the relegation to the ABC Motsepe which could signal the slow demise of the People s Team, 16 years after they won the PSL. As history shows, it has proven difficult for teams that drop as far down as the third tier to bounce back to the PSL.It will be no different for Santos, who now sit at foothills of a peak they have to scale the return to the PSL. I think the time is right for me to retire, Arendse, who shared dressing rooms with legends such as Edries Burton, Jean-Marc Ithier, Andre Arendse and Musa Otieno, said. It s tough to go out like this but what can you say? Football will still be part of me and I will still be involved with the game. I ll walk away with good memories over the years. At the peak of his powers, Arendse won the Bobsave Super Bowl in 2001, the PSL title in 2002, the BP Top 8 in 2002 and the Absa Cup in 2003. Like fellow Capetonians, Arendse packed his bags and left for Gauteng to further his career with Orlando Pirates in 2004 and later switched to Mamelodi Sundowns in a surprise January window transfer move which involved Paulus Masehe.He returned to Santos in 2008 and remained with the team even after they were relegated to the NFD in 2012. At his ripe age, the man from Elsie s River on the Cape Flats has seen it all, big transfer moves, national team fame and scoring cup winning goals.But it s been the constant injuries which landed him in the reserve team and now the pain of yet another relegation, which will stay with him for some time.kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za-Kgomotso Sethusha