After a once-off stint in the city of eThekwini last year, the South African Music Awards (Samas) will at the weekend make its official return to the North West s Sun City resort.The return comes after the completion of renovations to the venue, which affected last year s hosting of the awards.So instead, all roads lead to Durban has given way for the foreseeable future to the term all roads lead back to Sun City with the 23rd edition of South Africa s version of the Grammy Awards.Viewers can expect lots of drama and light-hearted moments from this year s hosts Somizi Mhlongo and Tumi Morake.Apart from the 10 final record of the year nominees announced recently, the biggest news to date is that Babes Wodumo, Khuli Chana, Amanda Black and many others are set to rock the Sama stage.After a competitive four weeks, the top 10 was revealed live on SABC1 s Live Amp on Friday following weeks of campaigning and a hard-fought public vote.Recording Industry of South Africa CEO Nhlanhla Sibisi stressed the importance of voting, which is the only way that counts when it comes to the record of the year top spot.The nominees include DJ Black Coffee s Your Eyes, AKA s One Time, Babes Wodumo s Wololo, Amanda Black s Amazulu, DJ Clock s Wolf, Kwesta s Ngud, Mathew Mole s Run, Ms Pru s Ameini and Nasty C s Hell Naw.The artists will slug it out for the top spot in the prestigious category, won by Emtee s Roll Up in 2016.Sibisi said having used the latest technology of tracking the number of times a song has played on radio through independent radio tracking companies Radio Monitor South Africa and BMAT South Africa, he and his team were satisfied that the top 10 songs were deserving of the spot. It s an exciting mash-up of genres and influences that reflect a vibrant music industry. We look forward to a nail-biting finish with music fans and supporters making their voices heard, Sibisi said.Sibisi also promised a spectacular presentation of the awards. Our team is hard at work putting together a ceremony befitting the stature of the SAMA awards. We have every faith in Somizi and Tumi that they will add that extra zing to the proceedings and leave us entertained, he said. With SABC1 beign the awards official broadcaster, SABC Kaizer Kganyago equated the stature of the awards to that of the American Grammy awards. The SABC has always been a strong advocate of South African music and has a long relationship with both RISA and the South African Music Awards. We are very proud to be the broadcast and media partner of SAMA s23 this year. The event not only helps us deliver on our public service mandate but also provides entertainment to our audiences. Given the reach of the SABC, and its dominance of the media landscape, we have to use our resources to educate, inform and entertain. Our involvement with the South African Music Awards pledges our commitment to the support, promotion and celebration of incredibly talented artists, Kganyago said.siyabongas@thenwage.co.za