On present form, Orlando Pirates wouldn t win a match even if their lives depended on it. To say they have been awful this season would be a huge understatement, as the Buccaneers have resembled nothing of the back-to-back treble-winning team of five years ago.With two league matches left, the Soweto giants are still battling to secure a top eight spot and could miss out on the season opening MTN 8 Cup for their first time in their PSL history. It didn t have to come to this, but now Bucs find themselves having to win their remaining matches at all costs to finish in the top eight. Even then, it may come down to goal difference between them, Ajax Cape Town and Arrows.They face Ajax at Orlando Stadium tonight, before they conclude the league campaign away to Golden Arrows next week. In fact, they come up Arrows in back-to-back matches, first in the Nedbank Cup semifinals in Durban this weekend and in the final match of the PSL season next weekend. But the last match may turn out to be nothing more than a formality should they fail to pick up maximum against Ajax, a team they beat 2-1 in the first round. Pirates trail both Ajax and Arrows by three points, but should they come unstuck against the Urban Warriors, they will miss certainly out on the lucrative MTN 8 Cup.A series of draws and losses to lowly sides resulted in the gradual demise, which has seen the Buccaneers suffer humiliating defeats to SuperSport United and Mamelodi Sundowns. Signs of improvement have been visible under Kjell Jonevret, though a lot of hard work has been undone by the lack of consistency. Abbubaker Mobara has shown strong performances and he should start against his former side tonight, but it s been the slow return to form of Issa Sarr which gives Bucs hope of victory.They were held to a goalless draw by Bloemfontein Celtic and are still winless in three matches. Football is not always fair. I thought we played a good game against Celtic. We created a lot of chances on a terrible pitch. We played well, Jonevret said. I hope that game gave us confidence going into the two games remaining and the cup semifinals on the weekend. Because against Celtic I thought there were a lot of players, who played better than they had for a long time. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za