The ANC Women s League (ANCWL) will kick off its two-day National Executive Committee meeting today with its gaze set firmly on the party s raging succession battle.ANCWL president Bathabile Dlamini said while the race of the ANC presidency has been raging within the ANC-led tripartite alliance, when the political sideshows for the ANC throne were done and dusted, ANC branches would have the final say. It is branches of the ANC that elect leadership. It is only the members of the ANC, that s the bottom line, Dlamini told The New Age.Without mentioning deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa by name, she said ANC leaders using memorial services for struggle stalwarts as launching pads for their campaigns would fail to yield success. You can t talk about things that have nothing to do with memorial services. Everyone wants to be president but I don t understand who would want to elect those people. On a daily basis, they are destroying the ANC. There s a lot of opportunism. We have to look at the present situation, Dlamini said.Dlamini, a staunch Zuma supporter, said the ANCWL s highest decision making body would reflect on the rapid anti-president Jacob Zuma sentiment emerging within the alliance.This will also include Zuma s embarrassment at Cosatu s main May Day rally in Bloemfontein, where he was repeatedly booed and heckled by crowds affiliated to Cosatu unions Unity is not when people go to a rally and boo those they have a negative attitude against. They don t know what unity means. Unity is about action and placing the movement above yourself, she said.The ANCWL has not shied away from openly endorsing former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as its preferred candidate to lead the ANC.Dlamini also said the ANCWL would provide an analysis on the role and character of liberation movements in power on the African continent, to draw lessons from. The ANC has empowered us with the tools of analysis. We are at another level of the struggle. We will look at what happened in other countries. It happened with former president Nelson Mandela. He was taken to court and he was challenged by former president FW de Klerk. They even killed Chris Hani with the hope that the country would descend into chaos, she said.bonolos@thenewage.co.za