Jozi FM CEO Mpho Mhlongo, yesterday relived the pain of seeing his friend and colleague, Mandla Hlatshwayo s body outside the Meli Lounge in Pimville.The former Generations star and Jozi FM DJ and a male friend were fatally shot while trying to save two women from getting robbed outside the pub. I dismissed the news at first. A day before we had an event that was successful, he was so jolly and I did not think those were his last moments on earth, Mhlongo said. When the second call came, I went to the scene and found his car there. I was still thinking it can t be him. It hit me hard when I saw his body, then I knew for sure he was gone. It was sad and is still hard to accept that after such a jolly day he passed on. They did not only rob him of his cellphone and shoes, they also robbed him of his, life A bystander, who did not want to be named, said six shots were fired. The first two hit Hlatshwayo s friend who was standing at the glass door.Mhlongo said the family was devastated, especially the mother, as Hlatshwayo s father had died the same way.A close friend, Mpho Tsedu, said: It becomes difficult to reconcile him and the circumstances in which he passed on. I have known him since my days at Muvhango and when he was on Generations, we were very close. One needs to condemn in the strong possible terms that he died. The Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, sent his condolences to Hlatshwayo s family and called his passing an utter shock .Police spokesperson Col Lungelo Dlamini said they had not made any arrests yet and called on anyone with information to come forward.Industry peers hailed Hlatshwayo as a hero for putting his life on the line trying to save someone else s.Friend and former Generations actress, Sophie Ndaba, said the news of his passing broke her heart. Hearing of the news broke my heart because in South Africa we seem to be losing the best talent, people who are committed to their art, Ndaba said.Hlatshwayo made his first television break on SABC 1 s Soul City in 1996 and went to Generations in 1999. He left the soapie to pursue his music career in 2006.His death has prompted social media users to call for action against the escalating crime rate in the country.Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has assured all South Africans the police would do everything to find the killers. It is sad that we are losing role models in society, when our country desperately needs them to inspire our youth, Mbalula said.@mel_msane: Dis Mandla story reminds me of my friend DJ Stem s untimely passing ?? He also died tryna protect a lady from being mugged. #RIPMandla@sergio_banqan: May his gentle soul rest in perfect peace. SA soapies, drama s and movies should tone down gangsterism roles on TV #RIPMandla@AnacondaSecure: Crime is out of control cos the law protects criminals. If he shot that trash in self-defence he ll be in jail as we tweet. #RIPMandla@Makleramag: There is something wrong in our country, things are going south. Women are killed and then they say it s democracy maturing. #RIPMandlaDIKELEDI RAMABOPA AND NONTOKOZO GXUMISAnews@thenewage.co.za&nbsp;