Homophobia, racism, xenophobia and homelessness Junior Mayema has been a victim of all these forms of abuse.Mayema from Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo had to flee his home after his family discovered that he was gay. I fled to South Africa in 2010 escaping death threats from my own family and the Congolese society as a whole for being gay. Activists from Germany and Britain bought me flight tickets to live with my cousin in South Africa, he said.But even South Africa s liberal laws could not protect him from the stigma of homosexuality. My cousin kicked me out when he found out that I was gay. I moved from shelter to shelter. I was homeless and slept in the garden for days. I faced extreme homophobia and xenophobia from South Africans and the Congolese community, Mayema said .The discrimination pushed him to work with organisations which fight for refugees rights. I was receiving some financial assistance from a Canadian gay couple and that enabled me to pay rent in Claremont, Cape Town, Mayema said.But he continued facing abuse. I shared the house with a Congolese who made himself the landlord and would beat me up me because I m gay. When I reported him to the police, I was never assisted. I was lucky to survive because they wanted to kill me. After pleading with them, I was released with a badly injured arm and that is how my case was expedited with the UNHCR and I left South Africa, he said.Mayema is among nearly 8000 people who have been resettled from South Africa to other countries such as the US, Canada and Australia since the 2008 xenophobic attacks. Since 2008, a total of 7737 individuals were referred for resettlement from South Africa. Cases are identified based on a protection-needs assessment and specific criteria. For example it includes survivors of torture and women at risk, UN Refugee Agency spokesperson in South Africa Tina Ghelli said.Mayema has been living in the US for more than two years. I moved to the US in November, 2014. At first, I worked a part-time seasonal job as a cashier but it ended. I have been resettled to the Bay Area in San Francisco, which is the most expensive place to live in the US, he says.He might have escaped the DRC and South Africa, but the challenges remain. I am still facing homelessness, racism and lack of integration because the government help was short-term for only eight months, now I am completely left on my own and faced with so many struggles in the US, he said. There is still homophobia in the US especially if you are low-income or don t know people.You are completely disposable and can t find a job because of your race and your sexuality, I am still trying to go back to college and go to university to get my law degree, Mayema said.Generally, UN-resettled refugees receive a small amount of government assistance for the first eight months.Ghelli says the majority of the people who have been referred for resettlement from South Africa are from the DRC, Somalia and Burundi.Some of them had been victims of xenophobic attacks several times and were battling to cope in South Africa.Ghelli says the resettlement process can take up to three years before it s finalised. The persons being considered also need to have strong refugee claims. UNHCR then conducts a resettlement interview and refers the individual to the resettlement country. The resettlement country then also has to interview them and make a decision whether or not to accept them for resettlement. Once accepted, there are additional processes before departure, like health screenings and security background checks. Once those are the done then departure is arranged. The process prioritises vulnerable refugees. There is no right to be resettled, unlike the right to seek asylum and right to return to one s own country. Thus, UNHCR must prioritise resettlement for refugees most in need, including vulnerable women and children and those with serious protection needs in the country, Ghelli said.ZODIDI MHLANAzodidim@thenewage.co.za