ABSA has been accused of undermining black talent within the bank. However, the bank hit back yesterday, saying about 88% of new hires are black and 83% of promotions are given to blacks.Earlier this month, the Department of Labour s employment equity (EE) report said a number of firms still undermine transformation at the workplace. It pointedly said only two to three CEOs turned out for the EE report launch. Now the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (Absip) has expressed concern at the resignation of the former head of client services at Absa s corporate and investment banking division, Phakamani Hadebe, who was replaced by a white.It is understood that the announcement to replace Hadebe was made in front of 15 black potential candidates interviewing for the position. Following Hadebe s resignation, Absa announced changes in the leadership of the corporate and investment banking division. It said changes were understood to have shocked and angered black senior management at the bank, who interpreted them as overlooking deserving black talent . Absa is our corporate member and we call on them to deeply reflect on this matter and ask themselves why such a formidable player in the industry would tender his resignation without evident prospects of other employment. We hope that those employees who staged a walk-out in peaceful protest will not face disciplinary action, Sibongiseni Mbatha, Absip president, said. Absip said Hadebe had been a driving force for change and transformation in the financial services sector and had contributed significantly to the country s economy. His resignation comes at a pivotal time when all stakeholders are trying to find means of transforming the country s financial service sector. As Absip we are of the view that the recent developments at Absa are contradictory to the sector s transformation agenda, Mbatha said.Before joining Absa s corporate and investment banking division in 2014, Hadebe was CEO of the Land Bank from July 2008 to 2013. He also worked for the national Treasury, where he headed the asset and liability division. We are making steady progress in all tiers of management, Absa said.-BERNARD SATHEKGE|business@thenewage.co.za