While the 2010 World Cup brought a lot of joy and fortune for residents and businesses in Glenwood, it left them with a problem they now battle to get rid of.Glenwood has become a favourite spot for prostitutes to ply their trade and its notoriety for being Durban s red-light district has helped sustain this illicit activity even when it has managed to fade out in other areas of the city.Each year, beginning in 2010 when they first descended on the area hoping to cash in from football fans arriving in Durban for the World Cup from around the world, they have risen in numbers and are now found in almost every major road in Durban s oldest suburb.The prostitutes, mostly young girls, saunter around the corners of the once tranquil suburb, dressed in skimpy skirts aimed at wooing potential and regular clients.Chairperson of the Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum, Heather Rorick, said residents are frustrated because they do not know how to get rid of them. The frustration is getting worse as it is happening right in front of the doorsteps of residents. It is done openly. There is no shame about it any more, she said.Rorick said all efforts to have the sex workers moved have failed. We have tried on many occasions to get rid of them. We have sent hundreds and hundreds of emails to authorities asking them to help but nothing has happened. We even had meetings with senior prosecutors to find out why our cases against the prostitutes are not on the court rolls, she said.Rorick said as a result, some residents and businesses were starting to move away from the suburb. Some of the people have left because of the high role of prostitution. The properties in the area are losing value and many businesses have already left. The area has now degenerated. It is now identified as a red-light district. People don t even want to come here any more. She said even if sex work was decriminalised, the community would not welcome sex workers in their midst. It doesn t mix well with the community. It is also not the right place because there are children living here. It can be put in an industrialised area. eThekwini municipality spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said the municipality was aware of the problem and its metro police unit was conducting daily by-law enforcement operations across the city, including in Glenwood. Enforcement is ongoing, many arrests are made and summonses written, Mthethwa said.She said residents should work hand-in hand with metro police by reporting all by-law infringements to the emergency line 0313610000.Currently, under Act No 23 of 1957 Sexual Offences Act, prostitution is illegal in South Africa.A person found guilty of the offence can be sent to jail with or without a fine.However, over the years, there has been a fiery debate on whether it should be decriminalised.Proponents argued that legalisation of the world s oldest profession will help create much-needed employment,provide legal protection for sex workers and also put an end to trafficking of women to work in illegal brothels.Meanwhile, those who advocate for its criminalisation believe it would decrease the demand for prostitutes, make it easier to fight trafficking and reduce the spread of diseases such as HIV and Aids.LESLEY TSHAMANOprovinces@thenewage.co.za