Minister Lynne Brown has emphatically rejected allegations that President Jacob Zuma had a hand in Brian Molefe’s return as Eskom CEO. She has also said publicly, for the first time, the ANC had resolved that the government would sort out the matter and that a committee which included President Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa had been formed to look into it. She made these statements while appearing before Parliament’s Public Enterprises Portfolio Committee yesterday. She had to defend her integrity, ride a grilling whether President Zuma was behind Molefe’s reappearance and also tell Members of Parliament that she had informed the president of the decision of Eskom’s board to re-employ Molefe. DA Chief Whip John Steenhuisen asked her bluntly if she had been instructed to take Molefe back at Eskom. She replied: “I need to tell you when Eskom said they would reinstate Brian Molefe I told the president. It’s the norm. I always do so. I went to officials and also told them. I went to all six of them and told them. If you all look in to my eyes as you ask me that: “No I did not get an instruction”. About whether she was fibbing or had lied in her affidavit submitted to the court this week, Brown said she was aware of the consequences. “If I lie in my affidavit it’s the end of me as a public representative.” Asked by another DA MP, Natasha Mazzone, about her meeting with the ANC’s top six officials to explain Molefe’s re-emergence at Eskom, she said these office bearers regularly met deployees. This, said Brown, was a normal engagement. “What came out of that discussion is that we presented to the top six something similar that we presented to you today. We had long discussions and we were sent back. The deputy minister and I were told the government would sort this out,” she said. Brown said a committee that included President Zuma and his deputy, was being formed. This committee would look at the legal opinions given to Eskom, as well as that of her department before subjecting it to an independent legal opinion and then make a decision. She told the Portfolio Committee she was not opposed to a part of the DA court application that was seeking to invalidate Molefe’s reappointment. “It was largely to do with the fact was I was noted as somebody who made the appointment. I did not make the appointment,” Brown said. The Eskom board used an agreement it had made with Molefe in terms of a 2014 Memorandum of Incorporation and not the 2016 version of this document in the Molefe situation. The 2014 agreement, which she had inherited, did not compel Eskom to inform the Minister about the appointment of a CEO, while the one signed in 2016 did, she said. Saying: “The court has to address it,” she said the R30m pension payout that Eskom had wanted to give to Molefe and to which she had objected was based on the 2014 Memorandum of Incorporation. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN