The process to introduce plain cigarette packaging is moving too slowly despite the urgency to curb smoke related deaths and illnesses in South Africa.Peter Ucko director of Tobacco, Alcohol and Gambling Advisory, Advocacy and Action Group yesterday said there was an urgent need to introduce legislation on plain packaging.The legislation to introduce plain packaging will see South Africa follow in the footsteps of other countries such as Australia, France and the UK among others. It is estimated that 44000 South Africans die every year due to smoking related illnesses.Ucko said legislation on plain standardised tobacco packaging was long overdue, saying the country still had a long way to go. Plain packaging laws prohibit the use of branding, logos and promotional information on the product. It s much too slow from my point of view. People are dying because we don t have the legislation we need to have standardised plain packaging with big graphic health warnings and other messages, Ucko said.He said his organisation was engaging the government regularly but that it s a bureaucratic and political process so it will have to eventually end up with the Cabinet for approval. Then it s published as a bill, goes out for public comment and there will be public hearings. Department of Health spokesperson Joe Maila said: We remain committed in putting together a regulatory framework on tobacco and the process is on course. He could not give dates on when the bill would be introduced. Maila urged people to be aware of the harmful effects of tobacco. We encourage those who have not yet started smoking especially young people not to start as cigarette smoking can be a gateway to other drugs, he said.According to the World Health Organisation tobacco use is one of the largest preventable causes of non-communicable diseases globally.According to the WHO, tobacco kills nearly 6 million people each year, of that figure more than 5 million deaths are attributed to direct tobacco use while more than 600000 deaths are as a result of being exposed to secondhand smoke.Figures also indicate that almost 80% of the 1 billion smokers globally live in low and middle income countries which experience a high burden of tobacco related illnesses and death. The tobacco industry has not taken measures to reduce tobacco use lying down, often engaging in aggressive campaigns and citing job losses.However a recent report by the World Health Organisation and the National Cancer Institute of the US found policies to control tobacco use did not harm economies as claimed by the tobacco industry and can help create revenues for health and development.LERATO DIALEleratod@thenewage.co.za