A rise in taxi hijackings is hitting the insurance industry hard in the pocket, with one company paying out R47m in claims every month.Clarendon Transport Underwriting Managers (CTU) said it had paid out R7bn in taxi claims over the past 25 years. CTU marketing director Zane Hassim said they process 1 600 claims a month.Altrack Fleet Management, a taxi tracking company, has intervened successfully in more than 100 hijackings in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal in the past six months. Altrack sales manager Siphiwe Mgenge said there were indications some taxis hijacked in Gauteng were taken to KwaZulu-Natal. In a week, we recover three to six taxis. We have developed a system to identify a hijacked taxi and our recovery rate is 90%. SMS updates sent to Dobsonville, Roodepoort, Leratong, and Johannesburg Taxi Association members show that 13 taxis have been hijacked in the past three months. The same association reported that 150 taxis were taken from January to October last year. The association s public relations officer Zeblon Simelane said some owners had been left bankrupt and battling to pay loans. On average, a brand new Quantum costs between R380000 and R400000, translating to a monthly instalment of R7000 to R10000. Four or five taxis are stolen a week and we are being targeted as an association. We have even lost drivers during these violent hijackings, Simelane said.Taxi driver Sipho Mlangeni, a hijacking victim from Benoni, said eight vehicles were hijacked in his area last week and four were recovered by Altrack. Taxi owners are stealing from each other. The cars are stripped or taken to another province, Mlangeni said.He said that he had to fight his way out of his taxi. I knew if I agreed to go with the two hijackers they would kill me, so I forced my way out through the driver s door. The taxi wasn t recovered, he said.A driver, who does the HoneydewJohannesburg route, said the Bree Street area was a hot spot at night. My taxi was taken about 7pm on my way to Noord taxi rank by people I had given a lift to Bree Street. It was later recovered in Krugersdorp. Mgenge, whose company services 8000 taxis, said if police were cooperative, hijacked taxis would be recovered. They are reluctant to follow up when we give them leads, he said.Police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini was unable to respond to the claim despite three emailed enquiries and several phone calls since last week. Durban s Phoenix Taxi Association spokesperson Basha Suleman said hijackings in the coastal city happened a lot during winter. We re approaching winter and a lot of hijackings take place because it gets dark early.It s people who pretend to be passengers who hijack our drivers so we advise them to be wary, Suleman said.Northern Cape police spokesperson Sergio Kock said there were hardly cases of hijackings in the province while North West rarely records such.