After two months without clean drinking water, the Greater Oudtshoorn municipality has finally said community members can now use the town s water for human consumption.This after the latest bacteria results conducted by municipal water department a week ago indicated that the life-saving resource is now drinkable.Community members have in the past week been advised to boil it before consumption following discolouring of the water from the Koos Raubenheimer Dam.In January, the town council offered bottled water to De Rust residents a few kilometres outside Oudtshoorn after the remains of the veld fires spewed into the water stream, blemishing it.The municipal water and sanitation department said discolouring of the water in Oudtshoorn was caused by mud after flash floods hit the small tourist town as well as remains of the burnt vegetation in the catchment areas in March.The municipality said the flow into the dam was of pristine quality and the normal grade of the water had recovered.Yesterday, community members in Bridgeton, Bhongolethu, Toekomsrus and other parts of the West Bank welcomed the announcement.Zamani Stokwe of Smartie town in Bhongolethu said the water had caused frustration as most people got sick after consumption. It s a good thing the problem has been dealt with. The water was terrible, it made no difference even if you boiled it. It just made me sick, not everyone could afford buying purified water from town, he saidA businesswoman in West Bank, Linda Serfontein, said: We have been waiting for too long. It s been a tough two months, because my catering business depends on using water. I was forced to buy purified water to cook food for my customers, I am now relieved that the situation is back again to normality. Buying water every day was the most stressful thing to do because I have to stand in the line for long hours to fill up the containers with water, she said.In Bridgeton, 55-year-old Megan Daartman said: Yes we are happy as buying water was costing so much. We use water for almost everything. We bought water but it was not enough for the whole family, especially for cooking. We hope this problem doesn t happen again because it s really costly. Speaking after the announcement the Greater Oudtshoorn mayor Colan Sylvester said: We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the residents of the Greater Oudtshoorn for their patience during the past weeks. MPUMI KIVAnews@thenewage.co.za