The family of a Ford Kuga owner, Reshall Jimmy, who died in 2015 when his vehicle burst into flames, slammed Ford for spreading a web of lies about his death to avoid taking responsibility.Reshall s sister, Renisha Jimmy, responded after Ford SA CEO Jeff Nemeth claimed during a meeting with the family last Friday, that Reshall was shot in the head. Renisha said they had thought the meeting with Nemeth was to reach a settlement with her family over the matter, but was shocked when the CEO informed them that Ford would not accept responsibility for Reshall because he had in fact died after being shot. The story is very frivolous, I don t know how they came up with this version, but that s what they told us, she said. We were shocked. Jeff made it seem that he wanted to give us closure, he gave me his word that we were going to close this chapter.It s ironic that he says that Reshall was shot. Reshall, 33, was burnt to death in his Ford Kuga 1.6 SUV in December 2015 while travelling to the Western Cape. Family legal representative Rod Montano yesterday said Nemeth was initially willing to settle the matter by offering the deceased s family a vehicle worth up to R1m, but it was rejected.Montano has also disputed Ford s claims and said a post-mortem report revealed that Reshall was alive during the fire and further said a hole behind his right ear was as a result of the fire. In my legal opinion, Nemeth admitted legal liability for the death of Reshall. Why would an offer of settlement be made if they suspect that he was murdered? It doesn t make sense, Montano said.Renisha said all the family wanted was a proper settlement from Ford and an apology. David Klatzow, a forensic pathologist who has been assisting the deceased s family, said an inquest should be conducted in order to ascertain the cause of the death. This is an example of an investigation which has been marked by the deceitfulness of Ford, he said.In January, Reshall s family said they would be launching a civil claim against the company over the burning of the vehicles. More than 150 complaints have been lodged with the National Consumer Commission (NCC) since the start of the year and the investigation against the company is still under way.The family has been critical of how Ford handled the matter, accusing it of refusing to take any responsibility. Ford said it was waiting for evidence from the police about his death. In January, Ford said it would be recalling 4 500 Ford Kuga 1.6 litre vehicles.More than 40 Ford Kuga vehicles caught fire over the last year. Ford SA spokesperson Rella Bernardes could not be reached for comment.zodidim@thenewage.co.za