Cosatu yesterday put the ball in the ANC s court on who it would send as an alliance leader to a meeting of its Central Committee on Monday.Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said Cosatu had a slot scheduled for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to address the closing day of its midterm policy gathering on Wednesday but only as a guest and not as an ANC representative.Cosatu left it to the ANC to bring anyone from the ruling party s top six leadership, with the exception of President Jacob Zuma, to speak on behalf of the ANC at the opening of the federation meeting. It depends on who the ANC wants to bring. It can be anyone, with the exception of Zuma. We ve just put a condition on the invitation. From where we stand, there is no longer a top six, Pamla said.He said Cosatu had not sent a list of its preferred candidates to lead the ANC delegation at the meeting. There s no list of preferred speakers. We just sent an invitation that says bring anyone except Zuma. The ANC can send Mantashe or Jessie Duarte (ANC secretary-general and deputy secretary-general respectively) or anyone. It s up to them. Pamla s comments come on the back of a Cosatu central executive committee media briefing, where it said that Zuma would be barred from participating in all Cosatu events and activities in future. Pamla, making reference to the threat of factional politics dominating its Central Committee meeting over its decision to ban Zuma from attending, said that although Cosatu was aware of the threat, he hoped for a smooth meeting. We are confident that nothing of that sort will happen. We are a big federation with lots of members. We ve acknowledged the problem of the alliance and its weaknesses but the issues of the ANC is an alliance issue, not an issue for Cosatu s Central Committee. The issues that will be discussed are from workers by workers, he said. Pamla also said Cosatu s highest decision-making body had voted unanimously on Zuma s ban. He stressed that Cosatu was not divided on the matter. Cosatu would not be naive to take that risk if it was divided. We would not take the decision if workers were not behind it. The confidence of Cosatu to take the decision to ban Zuma emanated from its unity, he said.ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said while the ruling party would send a delegation to the meeting, it was still deciding on who it would nominate as the ANC s representative. No, we have not yet made the decision, Kodwa said.BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za