Winning a medal at the World Championships remains the biggest goal for Akani Simbine this season. The sprint sensation has set himself on that path as he heads to Europe to compete in three meetings ahead of the IAAF World Championships in London in August.He has produced astonishing performances as he set and broke records since the beginning of the season. It s that time of the season when we athletes chase the summer, running away from the winter season. I m ready to compete. I opened my season in Doha. I ve taken down some pretty big names in the sport already and I m think I m where I want to be at the end of the year, Simbine said. There are goals I want to achieve as a sportsman. I set goals, my own goals and I m on the right track. I ve consistently run under 10 seconds. I ve won my first Diamond League, becoming the first South African to achieve that. I want to continue with the 200m and return with the medal from the World Championships. The 23-year-old speedster will begin his overseas sojourn with a stop in Boston for the Adidas race where he will line up against Jamaican Yohan Blake on June 4. He will head to Jamaica for the Usain Bolt Invitational Race together with Olympic gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk. Simbine was handed a set of new car keys by new sponsors Mercedes in Johannesburg yesterday, in what was a show of renewed faith by corporate South Africa in local athletes.Simbine has been involved in campaigns to raise interest in the track and field events and his achievements have helped his cause, as seen when he clocked 9.95 seconds at the SA Senior Athletics Championships last month and won with the time of 9.99 at the Diamond League in Qatar last week.Admittedly, levels of expectation have been raised and Simbine will have to maintain consistency in his sub-10 second performances and deliver gold at the World Championships. It s an opportunity for us to take the spot (Usain) Bolt is going to leave when he retires. And I ve already put my hand up. -KGOMOTSO SETHUSHA|kgomotsos@thenewage.co.za