Anyone who studies democratic elections in both developed and developing nations and in particular the role of the media must come across the case study of The Sun newspaper in the UK running the headline: It s The Sun Wot Won It . The headline was in response to the paper s role in the Conservative victory of 1992.Labour s Niell Kinnock was leading in the polls against the Tories John Major. On election day, The Sun had run the headline: If Kinnock wins today will be the last person to leave Britain please turn out the lights. Major won the election by 12% over Kinnock.The case study is used to illustrate the important role that the media plays in any elections (both party and general elections). In, what we may call mature democracies, media houses, in this case Rupert Murdoch s Sun, clearly articulated who they were backing and why they were doing so. Even today, we know the partisan role publications such as the Guardian in the UK and the Mail and Guardian, here in South Africa, and broadcasting entities such as Fox News and CNN in America. Better be up front and honest with viewers.In a no-holds-barred piece published in December 2016 online on the Daily Maverick, which has yet to declare its overt political bias, social and gender commentator Nomboniso Gasa went in hard on Karima Brown, the former political editor of the Business Day and who today fashions herself as a political analyst; a very angry one, one might add.The piece, laced with a number of below the belt punches, is titled Karima Brown, you sold us the rotten deal and articulates Gasa s dissatisfaction with her erstwhile comrade. In it Gasa details their history spanning over 20 years, from their days in the Cape Youth Congress to their fallout in run-up to the ANC s Polokwane conference in 2007. At that conference, Brown was a staunch supporter of the SACP and by default Jacob Zuma and Gasa was a fierce critic of the man who later became president.Like most of us, Gasa, in writing her article, is intrigued at how and when Brown who used to pen a series of columns singing Zuma s praises and rubbishing his then political rival Thabo Mbeki changed her views so drastically. Gasa wrote: I am intrigued to see that you are Zuma s most fierce critic. There is nothing wrong there. If you have now come to see Zuma as a flawed leader, you have the right to change your mind. I recall one of your articles which turned my stomach 2016 election, wake up call for ANC . Really? You spent a significant period defending, justifying and selling this Zuma-led ANC and the problematic ways in which it represents itself. At the first sign of weakness, yours was among the first articles that warned of ANC decline. Nowhere in your article and subsequent commentary do you problematise your location. Nowhere do you take responsibility for your own contribution. Brown left the Independent Media Group hastily last year and has now emerged as an analyst on eNCA. But true to her nature, her anger defines her one-sided views. Her views on Zuma have changed drastically. She is angry with him, in no different a manner than the SACP with him.Instead of offering a balanced view of the ANC battles as an analyst, Brown is repeating her personal history by once again choosing sides, advocating for the so-called change agenda advanced by one faction, again in line with the SACP under the leadership of Blade Nzimande.Not only has she not learnt her lesson, both personally and as an analyst, from openly choosing sides in the run up to Polokwane but this does make one wonder whether there is any connection between the SACP and its stance pre-Polokwane and its stance today and that of the views of Brown, pre-Polokwane and her views of today. How is it that her views on Zuma changed at around the same time that the SACP changed its on ANC leadership?This then begs the question who are Karima Brown s real political masters and why does she not openly associate with them?Furthermore, why are her subjective political views, obviously influenced by these clandestine political masters whom she serves, allowed to go on air day after day disguised as analysis ? I have no qualms with analysts taking direct political positions, in fact it s the honest thing to do, don t mislead readers and audiences by abusing your position of independence .Why is our perception of her and eNCA different from the commentators on ANN7, who attract public scorn for not hiding their political allegiance? At least unlike Brown and eNCA, we know where they stand because they make no pretence at any form of objectivity.In reviewing eNCA ownership structure according to an Intellidex research report, July 2016, its is owned significantly by trade union Sactwu at 33% (a Cosatu affiliated trade union which has openly declared its support for Cyril Ramaphosa (and that s their democratic right), Johnny Colplyn and Marcel Golding. So it s not surprising that in the past month eNCA has literally broadcast live all major events associated with Cyril Ramaphosa. Again all we ask is for the owners of eNCA to publicly support Cyril and not hide behind any notion of independence, as this is clearly a fallacy. We don t hear any notion of Cyril being captured by HCI s Johnny Coplyn and Sactwu s Andre Kriel.But it s not just Brown who is guilty of this hidden agenda. Present and former editors and journalists such as Sunday Times columnist Barney Mthombothi have also nailed their colours to the mast when it comes to ANC leadership.A total of 10 years ago, their poison pens painted former president Thabo Mbeki as a Machiavellian schemer, an authoritarian who suppressed debate in the ANC, a leader who had lost touch with the people and needed to be removed.They celebrated his defeat in Polokwane and rejoiced in his removal as president of the country eight months later.Today, their guns are turned on Zuma. He is the worst and most corrupt president the ANC and South Africa have had, we are told, and should be removed from power at all costs.Rest assured whichever ANC leader is elected in December 2017, he or she will have a short-lived honeymoon period and once again the poison pens will turn on them. And sadly those who cuddle up to media houses today, for their support in the Anything But JZ campaign, will once again become the victims as the tables turn after December 2017.Yet upon reflection we must ask ourselves why the same people, with the same methods, are accusing two different people of the same or similar crimes. Was Mbeki the problem? Is Zuma really the problem? What is the real battle here?Is this battle against ANC presidents, the ANC as the leader of the Tripartite Alliance, the Mass Democratic Movement as a whole or even the National Democratic Revolution itself? Is this the real gripe of the people we listen to and read in our media?One is reminded in this instance of a quote by former president Mbeki, when asked about the role of the media: All of us need to work seriously at increasing the level of professionalism within journalism, such that any journalist should be inspired by a sense of professional pride.So that in sustaining the pride in the profession there are certain things you do not do. I think that what we need to correct here is not the views of journalists about the government, the ANC, or Thabo Mbeki or anybody. It is just the professional competence that will actually empower them to criticise the president better. Our analysts and media houses, especially, cannot claim the moral high ground when it is evident that they are pushing an agenda. One fears that they are part of a bigger campaign towards regime change, a campaign that seems to be employing and therefore abusing our courts, civil society, business and labour. It would seem that it is an anti-majoritarian campaign and it will be pursued by the elite until the people s wishes are annihilated.We have only to look at Brazil in recent weeks.Wesley SealeWesley Seale teaches politics at Rhodes