The ANC Youth League has accused Gwede Mantashe of abandoning his administrative role as Secretary General of the ANC in favour of actively campaigning for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to emerge as the new party leader at the December elective conference. The criticism was sparked after Mantashe yesterday addressed a O.R Tambo memorial lecture at KwaNokuthula Hall, Pletternberg Bay where he told attendees that in order for the Presidential race to be “managed properly” a woman candidate ought to be found to serve as the deputy to Ramaphosa who should be elevated to replace current President Jacob Zuma. If Pres Zuma, with experience, refuses to handover to DP, we will be in a crisis. Let us find a woman to be DP, for succession to be managed — Gwede Mantashe (@GwedeMantashe1) October 10, 2017 If a sitting DP, cannot take over from the incumbent, organisation is owed an explanation, so that ANC must be at peace with itself #ORTambo — Gwede Mantashe (@GwedeMantashe1) October 10, 2017 ANCYL spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize on Wednesday criticised Mantashe’s stance saying he had now become a lobbyist for Ramaphosa’s campaign. “Unfortunately we have to now deal with a secretary general who is a lobbyist. Who speaks as though he is no longer a secretary-general,” he said. Mkhize added that as far as ANC processes go, there was no policy which prescribes who should lead the organisation and that the deputy succeeding the incumbent was not a rule set in stone. The Youth League is one of three ANC structures alongside the ANC Women’s League and the MK Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) which have endorsed Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma’s campaign to become President of the ANC ahead of the elective conference to be held in December. Meanwhile, MKMVA spokesperson Carl Niehaus is also unimpressed with Mantashe’s comments saying the SG should act in an impartial manner leading up to the conference. “We cannot have a situation where the Secretary-General wants to manipulate and arrange the appointment of the president of the ANC,” said Niehaus. Mantashe has previously been accused of picking sides in the run-up to the December conference and seemingly aligning himself with the Cyril Ramaphosa campaign. Last month while addressing United African Apostolic Church members in Limpopo, Mantashe said a torrent of “crisis” would sweep through the ANC if President Jacob Zuma did not “hand over” the leadership baton to Ramaphosa at the party’s December elective conference. Related: Mthembu supports Mantashe and ‘ANC tradition’ of DP becoming President He was criticised by ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Sihle Zikalala and presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma at an ANC cadres’ forum in KZN. “Those people who are predicting chaos are trying to instigate chaos, and we as members of the ANC will need to be vigilant and not be provoked by people who will sound like alarmists serving agent provocateurs,” Zikalala said. -Siphiwe Mchunu additional reporting by Bonolo Selebano 