THE spokesperson on energy of the National Union of Mineworkers, Paris Mashego, has called for an urgent meeting with the fund to clarify matters related to the rules of the fund. This came as Eskom appeared to have changed the rules of its pension fund to prevent enormous golden handshakes such as that given to former CEO Brian Molefe. CEO of the Eskom pension fund and provident fund Sibusiso Luthuli earlier told a parliamentary inquiry into state capture that Molefe’s R30.1m pension payout was boosted by the power utility of “buying” 13 extra years of service for him. This was allowed by the pension fund rules. The golden handshake was also boosted by the fact that Molefe had a young wife who he married last December. Luthuli and his executive team were grilled by the parliamentary portfolio committee on public enterprises, which is looking into state capture. The Eskom pension fund had assets of more than R143bn. The hearing wanted to find out how the fund concluded that Molefe should be paid R30.1m, having worked just 16 months for Eskom. Luthuli said Molefe should never have qualified to be a member of the Eskom pension and provident fund, but the power utility “bought him” an extra 156 months so he could benefit from the fund. “Eskom misrepresented Molefe’s employment status, which allowed him to be a member of the fund. “Former chairperson Ben Ngubane signed a letter approving Molefe’s early retirement. “Molefe was employed on a five-year contract, which ruled him out to benefit from the fund because it only qualifies permanent employees,” Luthuli said. “Eskom had bought additional service in years, a practice that the company has used in the past. Buying more days for employees is not new,” Luthuli said. Mashego said that this was surely against the rules, and asked for an urgent meeting with the fund to clarify the matter. “Our members need to know what’s happening,” he said. Luthuli said the fund would be forced to revisit the rules, especially when it came to additional services. “To set the record straight, the R30m was not directly from the fund, but Eskom paid for it after we made some calculations on their behalf. “Further, the total package included the fact that he had married a younger wife, which pushed up his pension as stipulated in the fund’s rules,” he said. Molefe had also transferred R4.2m he had in pension money with his former employer, Transnet, to the Eskom pension fund and has been earning R111000 a month as a pensioner. The fund’s rules allowed employees to take early retirement at 50, based on the employer’s discretion. The parliamentary chairperson of the inquiry, Zukiswa Rantho, said she failed to understand why the fund could not see that something was wrong. “The fund, to me, is operating like a stokvel by allowing employees to buy extra work service in order to cash in,” she said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za