SASOL has amended its plans to issue additional shares to settle outstanding Sasol Inzalo debt. The group recently announced that the Sasol Inzalo B-BBEE transaction created in 2008 with the objective of providing many South Africans with the opportunity to own an equity interest in Sasol, will come to an end next year. The transaction was a landmark, broad-based black economic empowerment initiative and a significant amount of the funding to facilitate this transaction was obtained through the issue of shares to external banks to facilitate the acquisition of Sasol shares by Sasol Inzalo Groups Funding and Sasol Inzalo Public Funding. Under the terms approved in 2008, 25 million Sasol preferred shares are due to be redesignated to Sasol ordinary shares during June and September 2018. This would result in dilution of existing ordinary shareholders of approximately 4%. These shares would then need to be sold in the market by the Inzalo FundCos in order to fund the redemption of the preference shares and cumulative dividends. In the prior announcement Sasol indicated that its preferred funding option would be to undertake an accelerated book-build of up to 43 million Sasol ordinary shares to enable the funding of the minimum amount sufficient to repurchase the relevant Sasol preferred ordinary shares and settle the relevant obligations and associated costs of the Inzalo FundCos. The rationale for this option was “to achieve rapid resolution of Sasol’s and the Inzalo FundCos’s respective financing obligations with a structure designed to help protect Sasol’s investment grade credit rating”. Following extensive engagement with shareholders, the group said that it was then undertaking to explore, in consultation with the external banks and Inzalo Fund, different funding options to settle the relevant financing obligations. Sasol will therefore no longer pursue the preferred funding option. Sasol said it would communicate its final plan for settling the Inzalo FundCos debt in February. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za