TRADE protectionism is on the rise, blocking international trade and hurting small businesses, Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies told the 20th African, Caribbean and Pacific Ministerial Committee in Brussels, Belgium, on Friday. Increasing sanitary and phytosanitary measures and standards (measures to protect humans, animals and plants from diseases, pests or contaminants) are also becoming barriers to international trade, he said. “South Africa is concerned that trade protectionism is on the rise,” Davies said. Over the years, free-trade agreements within countries have been concluded to make the exchange of goods easier, cheaper and more accessible. However, this year Zimbabwe has banned grain imports to protect local farmers after producing enough to meet domestic demand, just a year after a devastating drought left more than 4 million people in need of food aid. In a meeting between Davies and EU trade commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom, it was emphasised that small businesses needed help to take advantage of opportunities created by economic partnership agreements. This would allow them to meet the sanitary and phytosanitary measures required to enter the EU market. Bilateral agreements are an ongoing process between countries, and last month Zimbabwe and South Africa signed five agreements to promote economic and socio-economic issues during the second session of the Bi-National Commission in Pretoria. “Since last year’s joint commission, we have embarked on reforms aimed at facilitating the ease of doing business, which should improve local business environment as well as stimulate investment flows,” President Robert Mugabe said. Bilateral relations, or free-trade agreements, can increase productivity and contribute to higher economic growth by allowing domestic businesses access to cheaper inputs, introducing new technologies and fostering competition and innovation. These relations also improve and strengthen the economic relations between two countries by facilitating trade and removing impediments constraining bilateral trade and investments. To date, South Africa and Zimbabwe have signed more than 40 memorandums and agreements, which cover a broad range of areas that include, among others, trade and investment, immigration and consular matters, agriculture, the environment, energy, health and arts and culture. -NONHLANHLA MASEKO|nonhlanhlam@thenewage.co.za