NONE of AmaZulu’s matches since they returned to the Absa Premiership have been as eventful as the one against Mamelodi Sundowns on Saturday night that saw Siyabonga Nomvethe become the PSL all-time leading goal scorer. With 79 minutes of football played, Usuthu were a goal down at the Lucas Moripe Stadium, looking likely to record what would have been looked at as a routine defeat. From nowhere, Siyabonga Nomvethe came on in the 80th minute aged 39 to score what would be his 111 goal in the PSL. Replays may have shown the goal to be off-side, but referee Daniel Bennett allowed it to stand and Nomvethe is the new PSL goal king. In doing so, he claims the record from former Sundowns striker Daniel Mudau, who is on 110 goals. To make the occasion even more exciting, Nomvethe managed the feat against Mudau’s old club. But Mudau said he believes he scored more than 110 goals, saying the figure could be because the PSL may be counting from the PSL era that started in 1996 and not the old National Soccer League (NSL) goals. “Serious? Hai, I don’t believe that. It cannot be true. I think my record is 172 and not 110,” Mudau said. “I don’t know. I am not sure but I had passed the 150 mark. Are they counting PSL or the NSL? “Because from 1992, when I was with Ratanang Maholosiane, until I retired in 2003, I had over 150. Maybe they are talking the PSL era from 1996.” “But congratulations to Nomvethe. It makes the moment even better because he did it against my team. It is not easy. “Look at Nomvethe, he gets there when he is 39. He is a striker who is always in the box. He is like me, Tico Tico Bucuane, Marks Maponyane, George Koumantarakis. “But I don’t think the strikers these days will be able to get there any time soon.” Nomvethe is happy with his record, saying it took him a lot to achieve. “I did not think I would score. It was as if they had won the game. “I am happy the goals are coming – 111 is a big number for me. I have always been dedicated. This is a gift from God for me,” Nomvethe said. The veteran striker, who made his PSL debut 20 years ago while on the books of the now defunct African Wanderers, was PSL top goal scorer back in the 2011-12 season, playing for Moroka Swallows. He has played for Kaizer Chiefs, where he scored 42 goals in 79 appearances and later joined Serie A outfit Udinese in 2001, playing in Europe for four years. His return to the PSL saw him join Chiefs’ eternal rivals Orlando Pirates, before he went back to Europe to play three seasons in the Denmark League for Aalborg BK. In 2009 he returned to Swallows, scoring 53 goals in 149 appearances. Nomvethe spent four years in Europe from 2001 to 2005, before returning home to sign for Orlando Pirates. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za