TRANSNET yesterday revealed a gigantic expansion programme for its ports and railway lines worth a whopping R84bn over the next three years. Presenting this plan to Parliament yesterday, the Department of Public Enterprises said despite the additional investment, the entity did not expect to meet its target of 330 million tons of rail freight by the end of the 2018-19 financial year. “This will be due to a domestic and global economic downturn,” Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown told Parliament. The entity returned to profit recently and announced it had won a bid to recapitalise the government-owned National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) by R5.3bn. Despite a tough economic climate, the state-owned logistics company managed to increase its revenue by 5.3% to R65.5bn for the financial year to end March. CEO Siyabonga Gama expressed confidence in the future despite claims of corruption. The bid to recapitalise the NRZ could see Transnet receiving a large chunk of a multimillion-dollar contract. On the Zimbabwe deal, Transnet partnered with Diaspora Investment group and it was also reported that the Malaysia’s SMH Railway had bid to spend $100.7m (R1.4bn) to manufacture locomotives for NRZ “Transnet is leveraging its core competencies in terms of port, rail and pipeline infrastructure to diversify geographically. “Our long-term vision is to provide an integrated freight system in the region,” the entity told The New Age. The latest investment expansion formed part of Transnet’s R300bn infrastructure plan roll-out on capital projects over the next 10 years, which in turn is set to create 588000 new jobs in the South African economy. Meanwhile, Parliament’s trade and industry committee agreed on the terms of reference for its inquiry into Transnet’s R50bn locomotive contract. DA trade and industry spokesperson Dean Macpherson said yesterday that despite the local content obligations of the contract with China South Rail, none of the locomotives was being assembled in SA. “This inquiry must get to the bottom of how this contract was awarded and how the law was contravened in order to avoid producing the trains in SA, depriving our people of vital jobs The committee is empowered to call for Transnet to hand over all documents related to this massive deal,” Macpherson said. -TNA REPORTER|With Reuters