At least 22 students from Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges have been selected to compete in the prestigious World Skills International (WSI) competition. This year is the 44th edition of the WSI competition and it will be held in Abu Dhabi from 14 – 19 October 2017. The students will compete in 20 skill competition areas that include mechatronics, water technology, automobile technology, cooking, restaurant services, welding, auto-body repairs and plumbing and other trades. Minister of Higher Education and Training Minister, Dr Blade Nzimande stated that the opportunity aims to motivate the youth to pursue vocational education and to promote interest in the occupational trades. “The competition also holds huge potential to influence the development and employability of South African youth, as well as raising the standard of vocational education and training and artisanal skills in the country. I wish our representatives at the World Skills International gathering all the best. I’ve no doubt that they will do the nation proud,” said Nzimande. South Africa has participated in WSI events since 1990 and is ambitiously aiming to increase the number of its gold medals tally at this year’s event. The Durban national WSSA competition brought together 122 participants between the ages of 18 and 22 years from across the country. Speaking at that gathering then, Minister Nzimande said competitions such as WSSA went a long way towards building enthusiasm for the trades as a route to personal and family empowerment. “The WSSA and Decade of the Artisan projects are the projects in my Department targeting the continuous expansion of the TVET college sector, particularly artisanal skills. “Indeed, we are working closely with TVET colleges as they continually revise and upgrade their technical and vocational curricula. These efforts are directed at expanding programme delivery to embrace increasing numbers of occupational trade qualifications as listed by the Quality Council for Trades and Occupations,” he said. -TNA Reporter 